PROGRAM EXTENSIONS 
 
Work Experience P-7421 
Ancillary Programs 1 of 1 
 
1.0 Authorization 
1.1 The Los Rios Community College District Board of Trustees adopts a policy for 
Work Experience Education. Such plan as adopted is included within appropriate 
Board policy and regulation. (Ed. Code, § 78249; Cal. Code Regs., tit. 5, § 55251) 
2.0 Work Experience Education Defined 
2.1 The purpose of Work Experience Education is to provide students with an 
integrated instructional program that provides opportunities to connect academic 
curricula to applied experiential learning in the workplace. Work Experience 
Education should be substantive in nature, linked in a way relevant to a student’s 
educational pathway, and contribute to demonstrable learning outcomes that have 
value towards a degree or certificate.  
 Work Experience Education within the California Community Colleges involves 
student employment and/or internships selected, approved, and supervised by 
districts to provide meaningful work experience related to the course of study, or 
specific career pathway training, combined with instruction in critical workplace 
skills. Work Experience Education may include paid or unpaid employment, full 
or part-time employment, and may be structured as separate credit or noncredit 
classes, or integrated as a component of a course. 
 Work Experience Education may be integrated as part of a student’s educational 
pathway allowing students to achieve both educational and occupational goals. It 
may also assist the student in developing career awareness, learning industry 
culture, competencies, and norms, and developing professional networks in their 
desired field to support career mobility. Work Experience Education should 
provide economically disadvantaged students with opportunities to earn a wage 
while completing program requirements and earning academic credit.  
2.2 Apprenticeship Work Experience Education is supervised employment extending 
classroom-based occupational learning with on-the-job learning connected to an 
approved apprenticeship program.  
 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 9/4/74 
Policy Revised: 1/28/81; 4/21/82; 12/8/82; 3/11/26 
Policy Reviewed: 4/7/16; 3/11/26 
Adm. Regulation: R-7421