ADMINISTRATIVE COMPUTER USE 
 
Statement of Rights and 
Responsibilities 
P-8831 
User Rights, Responsibilities and Ethics 1 of 2 
 
1.0 Rights and Responsibilities 
1.1 Users shall:   
1.1.1 Comply with these Los Rios Community College District Policies and 
Administrative Regulations, as well as any additional guidelines 
established by the administrators of each system. By using the Systems, 
users agree that they will comply with all applicable Policies, 
Administrative Regulations and guidelines. 
1.1.2 Recognize their responsibility in the process of maintaining the security of 
District computing and networking resources. 
1.1.3 Minimize the impact of their work on the work of others by not attempting 
to encroach on others' use of the facility or deprive them of resources. 
Users must utilize only those computer and/or network accounts for which 
they have been authorized, and as such are responsible for the use of their 
assigned accounts.  
1.1.4 Maintain an environment in which resources are shared equitably between 
users: the system administrator of each system sets minimum guidelines 
within which users must conduct their activities.  
1.1.5 Maintain an environment conducive to learning: a user who harasses, or 
makes defamatory remarks, shall bear full responsibility for such actions. 
Further, by using this system, users agree that individuals who transmit 
such remarks shall bear sole responsibility for their actions. Users agree 
that the District's role in managing this system is only as an information 
carrier, and that they will never consider transmission through this system 
as an endorsement of said transmission by the District. 
1.1.6 Not use the System to knowingly perform an illegal act. Not interfere with 
other users' use of the systems. For example, any attempt to increase the 
level of access to which the user is authorized, or any attempt to monitor 
or record the activities of other users or access data belonging to other 
users, or any attempt to deprive other authorized users of resources or 
access to any District computer system shall be regarded as malicious, and 
may be treated as an illegal act. 
1.2 The District reserves all rights to the Systems, including but not limited to 
temporary or permanent termination of use of the service without prior notice. 
These policies and regulations shall not be construed as a waiver of any rights of 
the District, nor shall they conflict with applicable acts of law. 
2.0 Outside Networks 
2.1 Many of the District computing systems provide access to outside networks, both 
public and private, which furnish electronic mail, information services, bulletin 

ADMINISTRATIVE COMPUTER USE 
 
Statement of Rights and 
Responsibilities 
P-8831 
User Rights, Responsibilities and Ethics 2 of 2 
 
boards, conferences, web pages, etc.. The District does not assume responsibility 
for the contents of any of these outside networks. 
2.1.1 Users shall comply with the acceptable use guidelines for whichever 
outside networks or services they may access through District systems. 
2.1.2 Users shall follow proper etiquette on outside networks. Documents 
regarding etiquette are available through the District campus-wide 
information system and through specific individual networks. 
2.1.3 Users shall not attempt to transmit, or cause to be transmitted, any 
message in which the origination is deliberately misleading. 
3.0 Passwords  
3.1 Knowledge of passwords or of loopholes in computer security systems shall not 
be used to damage computing resources, obtain extra resources, take resources 
from another user, gain unauthorized access to resources, provide unauthorized 
access for others or otherwise make use of computing resources for which proper 
authorization has not been given. 
3.2 Users are responsible for proper password maintenance, including making 
periodic changes to and safeguarding the password. 
4.0 Publications 
4.1 Use of the Systems to advertise, announce or promote any District class, program 
or activity related to the District shall be conducted pursuant to District 
regulations. 
4.2 Any use of the Systems that refers to a non-District class, program or activity 
shall be for an instructional purpose. 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 4/5/00  
Policy Revised: 12/15/10 
Policy Reviewed:  
Adm. Regulation: R-8831