ORGANIZATIONAL PROCEDURES 
 
Procedures for Processing Board 
Requests for Information/Staff 
Reports/ Correspondence 
P-3154 
Board Access to Information 1 of 2 
 
1.0  Purpose 
1.1 The purpose of these procedures is to outline means by which information, staff 
reports and correspondence are supplied to support the needs of the Los Rios 
Community College District Board of Trustees. 
2.0 Categories of Requests for Information/Staff 
Reports/Correspondence 
2.1 Exigent Requests:  A request for which a response is usually required within a week 
and sometimes is required immediately for consideration in making an urgent 
decision.  This request is characterized as urgent in nature and should be made only 
when there is a situation to justify the urgency. 
2.2 Regular Requests:  A request for which a response is required in the normal conduct 
of the business of the Los Rios Community College District. 
2.3 Special Studies Requests:  A request for which a response is desirable in the normal 
conduct of the business of the District or is to be required in the conduct of said 
business at some date in the future, usually more than one (1) month. 
3.0  Rules Governing Use of District Resources to Respond to Board of 
Trustees Requests 
3.1 Requests of any of the categories above which require no research time, no more 
than one (1) hour of staff time, and/or minimal cost may be handled by the 
Chancellor without Board of Trustees action. 
3.2 Requests other than in 3.1 above shall be made through Board of Trustee action at 
Board of Trustees meetings.  The Board of Trustees shall determine the necessity 
and/or desirability of having staff respond to the requests. 
3.3 Requests from Board of Trustees members that are not directly related to the 
business of the Board of Trustees may not be processed and prepared using District 
funds and support services.  The following items are examples: 
3.3.1 Activities of individual Board of Trustees members directed against other 
Board of Trustees members, staff and/or District which may result in 
litigation or in hearings before administrative agencies and/or that could 
adversely impact the District financially or legally, cannot be supported 
with District funds or services.  The use of District resources in these 
matters is limited to defending complaints against the District which result 
in said litigation or hearings. 
3.3.2 Requests where there is a political purpose are inappropriate.(Cal. Const., 
Art. 16, Section 6; Ed. Code, § 7054.) 

ORGANIZATIONAL PROCEDURES 
 
Procedures for Processing Board 
Requests for Information/Staff 
Reports/ Correspondence 
P-3154 
Board Access to Information 2 of 2 
 
3.3.3 Requests where the use of District funds would support a private purpose 
are inappropriate. 
4.0  Making Requests 
4.1 Requests by members of the Board of Trustees for information are directed to the 
Office of the Chancellor. 
5.0  Priorities for Processing Requests 
5.1 The following priorities are established for processing requests unless otherwise 
determined by the Chancellor. 
5.1.1 Exigent Requests. 
5.1.2 Regular Requests. 
5.1.3 Special Study Requests - Arranged in date order of completion as adjusted 
by the lead time necessary to finish by the completion date. 
5.2 Within each of the categories above where there are competing requests, the 
Chancellor shall determine priorities for completion. 
5.3 The Chancellor shall develop internal procedures for processing requests. 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 6/10/81 
Policy Revised: 2/17/82; 4/17/91; 6/4/97; 12/15/10 
Policy Reviewed: 12/15/10 
Adm. Regulation: None