STUDENT RIGHTS AND 
RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
Drug and Alcohol-Free Workplace 
and College Premises 
P-2443 
Standards of Conduct and Due Process 1 of 2 
 
1.0  Drug and Alcohol-Free Workplace and College Premises 
1.1 The Los Rios Community College District is committed to maintaining a drug and 
alcohol-free workplace in accordance with the requirements of the U.S. Drug-Free 
Workplace Act of 1988, the California State Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1990, 
and a drug and alcohol-free college environment for students and employees in 
accordance with the requirements of the Drug-Free Schools and Community Act 
Amendment of 1989.  The District certifies that it will provide a drug and alcohol-
free environment by taking the actions required by these Acts. 
1.2 It is the intent of the District to make a good faith effort to continue to maintain a 
drug and alcohol-free environment through implementation of this policy. 
2.0  Implementation 
2.1 The District will notify students and employees that the unlawful manufacture, 
distribution, dispensing, possession or use of illicit drugs and alcohol is prohibited 
in the workplace and college premises.  The notice will include the actions that 
will be taken for violation of such prohibitions. 
2.2 A drug and alcohol awareness program will be established to inform students and 
employees about the dangers of drug and alcohol abuse and the District's policy of 
maintaining drug and alcohol-free workplace and college premises.  Information 
will be provided regarding drug and alcohol counseling and rehabilitation 
programs and the penalties that may be imposed upon students and employees for 
violations occurring in the workplace and colleges. 
2.3 Each employee will be given a copy of the policy statement annually regarding 
the drug and alcohol-free workplace and college premises. 
2.3.1 Employees will be notified that, as a condition of employment under any 
federal or state contract/grant to the District, the employee will abide by 
the terms of the policy.  The employee shall notify the District of any 
criminal drug statute conviction for a violation occurring in the workplace 
no later than five days after such conviction. 
2.3.2 Within ten (10) days after receiving notice from an employee or otherwise 
receiving actual notice of conviction, the District will notify the 
contracting agency in accordance with the Drug-Free Workplace Act. 
2.3.3 Within thirty (30) days of receiving notice with respect to any employee 
who is convicted, the District will take appropriate personnel action 
against such employee, which may include termination; or require such 
employee to participate satisfactorily in a drug or alcohol abuse assistance 
or rehabilitation program approved for such purposes by a Federal, State, 
or local health, law enforcement, or other appropriate agency.   

STUDENT RIGHTS AND 
RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
Drug and Alcohol-Free Workplace 
and College Premises 
P-2443 
Standards of Conduct and Due Process 2 of 2 
 
2.4 Each student will be given a copy of the policy statement annually regarding the 
drug and alcohol-free workplace and college premises.  Violation of this policy by 
students shall result in disciplinary sanctions up to and including expulsion, and 
may include the completion of an appropriate rehabilitation program. 
2.5 In addition to disciplinary sanctions, violators may be prosecuted under applicable 
law. 
2.6 Students and employees will be informed of the health risks associated with the 
use of illicit drugs and the abuse of alcohol, and will be advised of the availability 
of drug or alcohol counseling, treatment or rehabilitation programs. [Appendix A] 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 9/19/90 
Policy Revised: 5/20/92 
Policy Reviewed: 2/19/15 
Adm. Regulation R-2443