CONFLICT OF INTEREST CODE  Conflict of Interest Code 
 
P-8611 
Conflict of Interest Code 1 of 4 
 
1.0 General Provisions 
1.1 The Political Reform Act (Government Code Section 81000, et seq.) requires state 
and local government agencies to adopt and promulgate conflict of interest codes.  
The Fair Political Practices Commis sion has adopted a regulation ( 2 California 
Code of Regulations §18730) that  contains t he terms of a standard conflict  of 
interest code, which can be incorporated by reference in an agency’s code.   After 
public notice and hearing, the standard code may be amended by the Fair Political 
Practices Commission to conform to amendments in the Political Reform Act.  
Therefore, the terms of 2 California Code of Regulations Section 18730 and any 
amendments to it duly adopted by the Fair Political Practices Commission are 
hereby incorporated by reference.  This regulation and the attached Appendi ces, 
designating positions and establishing disclosure categories , shall constitute the 
conflict of interest code for the Los Rios Community College District (District).  
1.2 Individuals holding designated positions shall file statements of economic interests 
with the District’s Office of General Counsel , which will make the statements 
available for public inspection and reproduction. (Government Code Section 
81008.) All statements will be retained by the District. 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 8/12/92 
Policy Revised: 10/5/94; 3/3/99; 10/6/04; 5/17/06; 12/13/06; 10/15/08; 11/16/11; 3/13/13; 
1/14/15; 1/11/17; 5/15/19 
Policy Reviewed: 1/11/17; 5/15/19 
Adm. Regulation: None 
  

CONFLICT OF INTEREST CODE  Conflict of Interest Code 
 
P-8611 
Conflict of Interest Code 2 of 4 
 
APPENDIX A 
DESIGNATED POSITIONS 
Designated Positions Disclosure Category 
Vice Chancellor/Education and Technology 1, 2 
General Counsel 1, 2 
Director/General Services 1, 2 
Director/Facilities Planning and Construction 1, 2 
Director/Facilities Maintenance 1, 2 
Associate Vice Chancellor/Human Resources 2 
Associate Vice Chancellor/Communications and Media Relations 2 
Associate Vice Chancellor/Facilities Management 2 
Associate Vice Chancellor/Information Technology 2 
Associate Vice Chancellor/Educational Services and Student Success 2 
Associate Vice Chancellor/Instruction 2 
Vice Presidents of Student Services 2 
Vice Presidents of Instruction 2 
Directors (not listed above) 2 
Chief of Police 2 
Manager VII, Business Consultant 2 
Supervisor, General Services 2 
Purchasing Supervisor 2 
Buyers (all levels) 3 
Bookstore Managers 3 
Food Service Managers 3 
Consultants/New Positions * 
*Consultants/New Positions shall be included in the list of designated positions and shall disclose 
pursuant to the broadest disclosure category in the code, subject to the following limitation: 
 The Chancellor or designee may  determine in writing that a particular consultant/new 
position, although a “designated position,” is hired to perform a range of duties that is limited in 
scope and thus is not required to fully comply with the disclosure requirements in this section. 
Such written determination shall include a description of the consultant/new position’s duties and, 
based upon that description, a statement of the extent of disclosure requirements.  The Chancellor’s 
or designee’s determination is a public record and shall be retained for public inspection in the 
same manner and location as this conflict of interest code. (Government Code Section 81008.) 

CONFLICT OF INTEREST CODE  Conflict of Interest Code 
 
P-8611 
Conflict of Interest Code 3 of 4 
 
 Officials Who Manage Public Investments. The following positions are not covered by the code 
because they must file under Government Code  Section 87200 and, therefore, are listed for 
informational purposes only: 
Members of the Board of Trustees 
Chancellor 
Deputy Chancellor 
Vice Chancellor/Finance and Administration 
College Presidents 
Associate Vice Chancellor/Finance 
Associate Vice Chancellor/Resource Development 
Vice Presidents/Administration 
An individual holding one of the above listed positions may contact the Fair Political Practices 
Commission for assistance or written advice regarding their filing obligations if they believe their 
position has been categorized incorrectly.  The Fair Political Practices Commission makes the final 
determination whether a position is covered by Government Code Section § 87200. 
  

CONFLICT OF INTEREST CODE  Conflict of Interest Code 
 
P-8611 
Conflict of Interest Code 4 of 4 
 
APPENDIX B 
DISCLOSURE CATEGORIES 
Category 1 
Designated positions assigned to this category must report:  
a. Interests in real property which are located in whole, in part, or within the 
boundaries of the District, or of any land owned or used by the District, including 
any leasehold, beneficial, or ownership interest or option to acquire such interest 
in real property. 
b. Investments and business positions in business entities or income (including gifts, 
loans, and travel payments) from sources that engage in the acquisition or 
disposal of real property or are engaged in building construction or design.  
Category 2 
Designated positions assigned to this category must report:  
a. Investments and business positions in business entities or income (including gifts, 
loans, and travel payments) from sources (1) engaged in the performance of work 
or services, or which manufactures, sells, repairs, rents or distributes school 
supplies, books, materials, furnishings, or equipment of the type used by the 
District; or (2) engaged in the performance of the same type of work or services 
provided by the District.  
Category 3 
Designated positions assigned to this category must report:  
a. Investments and business positions in business entities or income (including gifts, 
loans, and travel payments) from sources (1) engaged in the performance of work 
or which manufactures, sells, repairs, rents or distributes school supplies, books, 
materials, furnishings, or equipment of the type used by the employee’s 
department (this includes all Colleges); (2) engaged in the performance of the 
same type of work or services provided by the employee’s department (includes 
all Colleges).