INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 
 
International Education P-7151 
International Programs 1 of 3 
 
1.0 Purposes and Objectives 
1.1 The Los Rios Community College District recognizes the interdependence of the 
global community. Maintaining informed connections with other nations and 
cultures is elemental to survival in a complex, competitive world, and only 
through cooperative learning and effort can we create a world in which the 
resources of nature and human creativity are used to the optimum benefit and 
enjoyment of all. 
1.2 It is the intent of the District to enable its students and the larger community to 
learn about and experience other cultures. This commitment extends to all facets 
of college activities, including but not limited to: 
1.2.1 International/Globalization Curriculum Development and Enhancement 
1.2.2 Study Abroad Programs - Credit Program for Students 
1.2.3 Offshore Education - Programs for non-US residents 
1.2.4 Sister College - International Education Programs 
1.2.5 Faculty Exchange Programs 
1.2.6 International Students Programs and Services 
1.2.7 Non-Credit Travel Study Programs - Community Services Travel Tours 
2.0 Administration 
2.1 The Chancellor shall designate an administrator to provide overall leadership for 
implementing activities related to international education. 
2.1.1 Each college shall designate an administrator to serve as the campus 
contact responsible for international education activities.   
2.2 The District International Education Committee shall advise the Chancellor in 
matters related to the activities specified in 1.2 above. 
2.3 The Chancellor shall submit periodic reports to the Board of Trustees regarding 
districtwide activities to implement the intent of this policy. 
3.0 International Curriculum Development and Enhancement 
3.1 For multicultural studies, see Board Policy P-7241 and Board Regulation R-7241. 
3.2 The Los Rios Community College District will encourage faculty to explore 
different and varied methods of internationalizing the curricula for the purpose of 
increasing global understanding. 

INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 
 
International Education P-7151 
International Programs 2 of 3 
 
3.3 The District will encourage faculty to develop degrees and certificates in 
international education programs and curriculum areas that enhance international 
education. 
3.4 The District will encourage staff development activities such as speakers, 
seminars and workshops to address international topics. 
3.5 The District will encourage faculty exchange and travel.  Such exchanges shall 
conform to appropriate law, Board policy and collective bargaining agreements. 
4.0 Study Abroad Programs - Credit Programs for Student 
4.1 Recognizing that study abroad programs can advance student growth, the District 
encourages on-site credit instruction in other areas of the world. 
4.2 The Los Rios Community College District may participate in consortia with other 
community colleges and universities to enhance the opportunities for faculty and 
students to participate in international experiences. 
4.2.1 A District administrator will be designated to coordinate and represent the 
District in international education consortium activities.   
4.3 All credit study abroad programs shall comply with Board policy and 
administrative regulation. 
5.0 Offshore College - International Education Programs for Non-U.S. 
Residents 
5.1 Chancellor/or Designee shall have the authority to negotiate with other 
institutions to establish "international education" programs for non-U.S. nationals. 
5.2 All negotiations shall be in compliance with the provisions of applicable state and 
federal laws and shall follow the rules and principles of good practice established 
by the Accrediting Commission for Community and Junior Colleges. 
5.3 All offshore college international education program contracts and revisions in 
contracts require prior approval of the Board of Trustees. 
6.0 Sister College - International Education Programs 
6.1 The Chancellor shall have the authority to negotiate with other institutions of 
higher learning to establish "sister college" relationships for the purpose of 
facilitating student, staff, and community exchanges in compliance with the rules 
and regulations of the California Community Colleges Board of Governors. 
Preference shall be given to those agreements which provide for exchange of 
students on a one-to-one basis. All sister institution contracts shall have prior 
approval of the Board of Trustees. 

INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 
 
International Education P-7151 
International Programs 3 of 3 
 
7.0 Faculty and Staff Exchange Programs 
7.1 The District will encourage faculty exchanges at the international level. 
7.2 The Chancellor is authorized to develop opportunities for faculty/staff exchanges. 
Such exchanges shall conform to appropriate law, Board policy and collective 
bargaining agreements. 
8.0 International Students Programs and Services 
8.1 The Los Rios Community College District is committed to admitting and 
providing support services for international students. 
8.2 Each college will provide appropriate programs and services for international 
students. 
9.0 Non-Credit Travel Study Programs --Community Services Travel 
Tours 
9.1 Recognizing that Travel Study Programs and tour activities shall be open to the 
public and offered by the colleges' Community Services programs. 
9.2 Non-Credit Travel Study Programs and tour activities shall be open to the public 
and offered by the colleges' Community Services programs (R-1511). 
9.3 The Los Rios Community College District may participate in consortia with other 
community colleges and universities to enhance the opportunities for faculty and 
students to participate in international experiences. 
10.0 Nonaffiliated Programs 
10.1 Travel Programs that are neither for credit nor noncredit through community 
services shall not be sold, marketed or advertised through Los Rios classes, 
programs, publications or facilities. 
10.2  Operators of nonaffiliated programs shall clearly inform participants that the 
activity is not in any way associated with Los Rios Community College District 
or any of the colleges. 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 2/17/93 
Policy Revised: 6/18/03 
Policy Reviewed:  
Adm. Regulation: R-7151