BUDGET PLANNING AND ADMINISTRATION 
 
Fiscal Agent Contracts P-8171 
Fiscal Agent Contracts 1 of 2 
 
1.0 Definition of Fiscal Agent Contracts 
1.1 District agreements with State and other governmental agencies and other 
organizations to administer their specific program funds as prescribed by them. 
1.1.1 The district receives the specified funds and disburses such funds in 
accordance with the outside agency's defined budget and the appropriate 
approvals of the agency. 
1.1.2 The district is not necessarily involved in defining the program or any 
program decisions over the allocation or expenditure of such funds. 
2.0 Purpose(s) of Fiscal Agent Contracts 
2.1 Agreements to act as fiscal agents for a governmental entity or organization are 
usually the result of those programs that: 
2.1.1 Involve statewide or a broad base of educational activities and technically 
require such funds to be awarded/allocated to a local educational agency 
(LEA), or 
2.1.2 Require a district to assist in the overall educational objectives of the 
specific program, or 
2.1.3 Require coordination among community college districts or other agencies 
involved in the specific program. 
The appropriateness and use of fiscal agent arrangements is the 
responsibility of the requesting organization. 
3.0 Governing Board Approval 
3.1 Similar to other contracts and agreements, fiscal agents agreements require the 
approval of the governing board. (P-8321) 
3.1.1 Established procurement regulations, requirements and standard district 
procurement policies and procedures are adhered to in the administration 
and disbursement of such funds. 
3.1.2 Impact on existing staff workload, district cash flow position and the 
purpose of the fiscal agent agreement are the major areas of consideration 
prior to entering into any agreement with a requesting agency. 
4.0 Implementation 
4.1 The Chancellor or designee shall develop regulations to implement the intent of 
this policy. 

BUDGET PLANNING AND ADMINISTRATION 
 
Fiscal Agent Contracts P-8171 
Fiscal Agent Contracts 2 of 2 
 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 11/15/89 
Policy Revised:  
Policy Reviewed: 2/19/15 
Adm. Regulation: R-8171