GOVERNANCE 
 
Academic Senate   P-3412 
Participatory Governance 1 of 5 
 
1.0  Definitions (Ed. Code, § 70902; Title 5, § 53200): 
1.1 “Faculty” means those employees of the Los Rios Community College District who 
are employed in academic positions that are not designated as supervisory or 
management and for which minimum qualifications for hire are specified by the 
California Community Colleges Board of Governors.   
1.2 “District Academic Senate” means the organization whose primary responsibility, 
as the representative of the faculty, is to make recommendations to the Los Rios 
Community College District Board of Trustees with respect to academic and 
professional matters.  “College Academic Senate” means the organization whose 
primary responsibility, as the representative of the faculty, is to make 
recommendations to the administration of their individual College with respect to 
academic and professional matters. 
1.3 “Academic and professional matters” means the following policy development and 
implementation matters:  
1.3.1 Curriculum, including establishing prerequisites and placing courses 
within disciplines;  
1.3.2 Degree and certificate requirements;  
1.3.3 Grading policies;  
1.3.4 Educational program development;  
1.3.5 Standards or policies regarding student preparation and success;  
1.3.6 District/College(s) governance structures, as related to faculty roles;  
1.3.7 Faculty roles and involvement in accreditation processes, including self-
study and annual reports;  
1.3.8 Policies for faculty professional development activities;  
1.3.9 Processes for program review;  
1.3.10 Processes for institutional planning and budget development; and  
1.3.11 Other academic and professional matters as are mutually agreed upon 
between the Board of Trustees and the District Academic Senate. 
1.4 “Consult collegially” means the Board of Trustees shall adopt policies on academic 
and professional matters through either or both of the following methods, according 
to its own discretion: 
1.4.1 Relying primarily upon the advice and judgment of the District Academic 
Senate; or  

GOVERNANCE 
 
Academic Senate   P-3412 
Participatory Governance 2 of 5 
 
1.4.2 Agreeing that the Board of Trustees, or designee, and the representatives 
of the District Academic Senate shall have the obligation to reach mutual 
agreement by written resolution, regulation, or policy of the Board of 
Trustees effectuating such recommendations.   
2.0 Recognition  (Ed. Code § 70902, Gov. Code § 3540; Title 5, § 
53203) 
2.1 The Board of Trustees notes and confirms the legislative intent to recognize the role 
of academic senates in District and College participatory governance. 
2.2 The faculty of each College in the District may organize a College Academic 
Senate for the purpose of College faculty government and to establish formal and 
effective procedures for participation in making recommendations on policies on 
academic and professional matters. The Board of Trustees recognizes the College 
Academic Senate(s) as a consulting body at each College.  A primary responsibility 
of the College Academic Senate(s) is to make recommendations to the 
administration of the College. 
2.3 The Board of Trustees recognizes the District Academic Senate, composed of 
various representatives of the College Academic Senate(s), as the representative 
body of the College Academic Senate(s) for the purpose of making 
recommendations on developing district-wide educational policies and procedures 
in accordance with this Policy.  The primary responsibility of the District Academic 
Senate is to make recommendations to the Board of Trustees, or designee, with 
respect to academic and professional matters. 
2.4 The Board of Trustees, or designee, shall consult collegially with the District 
Academic Senate when adopting policies and procedures on academic and 
professional matters.   Formal recommendations from the District Academic Senate 
shall be presented by the President of the District Academic Senate in writing to the 
Chancellor’s Cabinet or in regular meeting reports to the Board of Trustees.   
2.5 In instances where the Board of Trustees elects to rely primarily upon the advice 
and judgment of the District Academic Senate, the recommendations of the District 
Academic Senate shall normally be accepted, and only in exceptional circumstances 
and for compelling reasons shall the recommendations not be accepted.  If a 
recommendation is not accepted, the Board of Trustees, or designee, upon written 
request of the District Academic Senate, shall promptly communicate its reasons in 
writing to the District Academic Senate. 
2.6 In instances where the Board of Trustees elects to provide for mutual agreement 
with the District Academic Senate, and agreement has not been reached, existing 
policy shall remain in effect unless continuing with such policy exposes the District 
or its Colleges to legal liability or causes substantial fiscal hardship. In cases where 
there is no existing policy, or in cases where the exposure to legal liability or 
substantial fiscal hardship requires existing policy to be changed, the Board of 

GOVERNANCE 
 
Academic Senate   P-3412 
Participatory Governance 3 of 5 
 
Trustees may act, after a good faith effort to reach agreement, but only for 
compelling legal, fiscal, or organizational reasons. 
2.7 On the following District-level academic and professional matters, the Board of 
Trustees agrees to “rely primarily” on the District Academic Senate: 
2.7.1 Curriculum, including establishing prerequisites and placing courses 
within disciplines; 
2.7.2 Degree and certificate requirements;  
2.7.3 Grading policies; 
2.7.4 Standards or policies regarding student preparation and success; 
2.7.5 Faculty roles and involvement in the accreditation process, including Self 
Study Reports and annual reports; 
2.7.6 Policies for faculty professional development activities; and 
2.7.7 Processes for program review. 
2.8 On the following District-level academic and professional matters, the Board of 
Trustees agrees to “reach mutual agreement:” 
2.8.1 Educational program development;  
2.8.2 District/College(s) governance structures, as related to faculty roles;  
2.8.3 Processes for institutional planning and budget development; and 
2.8.4 Other academic and professional matters as mutually agreed on by the 
Board of Trustees and the District Academic Senate. 
2.9 The President of the District Academic Senate and the president of each College 
Academic Senate shall have a recognized chair at all formal meetings of the Board 
of Trustees. 
2.10 In order to facilitate the consultation process, there shall be regularly scheduled 
meetings between representatives of the District Academic Senate and the designee 
of the Board of Trustees. 
3.0  Committees (Ed. Code, § 70902; Title 5, § 53203)  
3.1 The Board of Trustees supports a robust and representative committee system as an 
important participatory governance tool across the District. 
3.1.1 Normally, the appointment of faculty members to serve on District 
committees shall be made by the District Academic Senate President in 

GOVERNANCE 
 
Academic Senate   P-3412 
Participatory Governance 4 of 5 
 
consultation with the local College Academic Senate Presidents in 
consultation with the Chancellor or designee. 
3.1.2 The appointment of faculty members to serve on College committees, task 
forces, or other groups shall be made by the College Academic Senate 
President in consultation with the College President. 
3.2 Recognizing the faculty’s primary responsibility for making recommendations in the 
areas of curriculum and academic standards, the following committees are senate-
led: The District Curriculum Coordinating Committee and the District Matriculation 
Committee. 
3.2.1 The District Academic Senate has the right to make recommendations to 
the Board of Trustees about policy, regulation, or strategic direction in 
academic and professional matters.  The District Academic Senate may 
allow senate-led committees to forward certain types of recommendations 
(e.g., curriculum proposals) directly to the Board of Trustees, or designee, 
provided that the District Academic Senate has authorized that practice in 
writing.  Those authorized recommendations constitute the 
recommendation of the District Academic Senate.   
3.3 Non-senate-led District Committees consist of members representing different 
constituencies who make recommendations regarding District Policy or practice 
outside of the arena of academic and professional matters but which have areas of 
responsibility regarding one or more of the academic and professional matters.  
The District Academic Senate recognizes that recommendations from these 
committees regarding academic and professional matters shall constitute mutual 
agreement between the District Academic Senate and the Board of Trustees or its 
representatives if the following two conditions are met: 
3.3.1 The District Academic Senate has appointed a representative to the 
committees in order to carry the District Academic Senate's views and 
suggestions for agenda items; and 
3.3.2 The faculty membership of any standing committee or of any 
subcommittee of a standing committee working on tasks related to the 
academic and professional matters as agreed to by the District Academic 
Senate and the Board of Trustees or designee has been increased to 
produce a weighted faculty voice. 
3.3.2.1 “Weighted faculty voice” shall be defined to mean that the 
following faculty membership on these committees will exceed by 
at least one (1) number of representatives of any other constituent 
group having membership on the committee. 
3.3.3 Even though recommendations of these committees represent mutual 
agreement, the District Academic Senate reserves its right to attach its 
own recommendation to those committee recommendations where the 

GOVERNANCE 
 
Academic Senate   P-3412 
Participatory Governance 5 of 5 
 
District Academic Senate believes that the committee processes in specific 
cases did not allow adequate opportunity for faculty expression and 
deliberation. 
3.4 Other academic and professional matters:  These matters will be restricted to the 
following area:  If the District Academic Senate or the Board of Trustees or its 
representatives believe that the formation of a new District standing committee is 
required to address any of the academic and professional matters, then the District 
Academic Senate and the representative of the Board of Trustees will consult in 
order to determine whether the committee shall be formed and what its charge shall 
be.  If agreement between the District Academic Senate and the Board of Trustees’ 
representative cannot be reached, then the two (2) respective positions will be 
forwarded to the Board of Trustees for final determination. 
3.5 At its discretion, the Board of Trustees or its representative may assign additional 
areas of responsibilities to the District Academic Senate which have been determined 
by mutual agreement to lie within the academic and professional matters. 
4.0  Timeliness and Limits 
4.1 Recognizing that the work of the District must continue against a background of 
timelines and deadlines produced by legislation, state and federal agencies and the 
general welfare of its primary clients, the District Academic Senate affirms that the 
Board of Trustees clearly retains the right to act without the benefit of 
recommendation if the responsible recommending body fails to perform or fails to 
perform in a reasonably timely way.  The District Academic Senate also recognizes 
that effective shared involvement in the District/College(s) decision making 
processes depends on the willingness and ability of all affected parties to share vital 
information in a timely and useable way. 
4.2 Pursuant to 5 CCR § 53204, nothing in this Policy shall be construed to impinge 
upon the due process rights of faculty, nor to detract from any negotiated agreements 
between collective bargaining representatives and the Board of Trustees. It is the 
intent of the Board of Trustees to respect agreements between the District Academic 
Senate and collective bargaining representatives as to how they will consult, 
collaborate, share, or delegate among themselves the responsibilities that are or may 
be delegated to the District Academic Senate pursuant to 5 CCR § 53204. 
(Formerly P-7612) 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 1/21/69 
Policy Revised: 12/6/70; 1/7/76; 4/21/82; 5/6/92; 6/4/97; 3/13/13 
Policy Reviewed: 3/13/13 
Adm. Regulation: R-3412