EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Sexual Assault   P-5174 
Employment Policies 1 of 2 
 
1.0  Statement of Intent 
1.1 It is the intent of the Los Rios Community College District Board of Trustees to 
implement, at each of the Colleges in the Los Rios Community College District, 
written procedures to ensure, to the fullest extent possible, that students, faculty, 
and staff who are victims of sexual assault committed at or upon the grounds of or 
upon off-campus grounds or facilities maintained by the District/College, shall 
receive information and referrals to local community treatment centers. 
2.0  Definition of Sexual Assault (Ed. Code, § 67385) 
2.1 “Sexual assault” is broader than sexual violence and includes, but is not limited 
to, rape, forced sodomy, forced oral copulation, rape by a foreign object, sexual 
battery, domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, or threat of sexual assault. 
Sexual assault is also a form of sexual harassment and should be reported under 
the District’s Discrimination and Harassment Procedures Policy and 
Administrative Regulation (P/R-5172). It should also be reported to the District 
Police Department or other appropriate law enforcement. 
3.0  Written Procedures 
3.1 Each College shall develop complainant-centered written procedures that shall 
contain, at a minimum, the following information: 
3.1.1 The District/College Policy regarding sexual assault on campus. 
3.1.2 Personnel at the College who should be notified, and procedures for 
notification, with the consent of the complainant. 
3.1.3 Legal reporting requirements and procedures for fulfilling them. 
3.1.4 A description of College services and resources available to complainants, 
as well as appropriate off-campus services. 
3.1.5 Procedures for ongoing case management, including procedures for 
keeping the complainant informed of the status of any student disciplinary 
proceedings in connection with the sexual assault, and the results of any 
disciplinary action or appeal, and helping the complainant deal with 
academic difficulties that may arise because of the victimization and its 
impact. 
3.1.6 Procedures for guaranteeing confidentiality and appropriately handling 
requests for information from the press, concerned students, and parents. 
3.1.7 Each victim of sexual assault should receive information about the 
existence of at least the following options: criminal prosecutions; civil 
prosecutions; the disciplinary process through the College; and the 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Sexual Assault   P-5174 
Employment Policies 2 of 2 
 
availability of mediation, academic assistance alternatives, and mental 
health counseling. 
4.0  Dissemination 
4.1 The written procedures shall be published in all student, faculty, and staff 
handbooks and shall be given to any student or employee who is the victim of a 
sexual assault. 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 2/20/91 
Policy Revised: 12/6/00; 4/8/15 
Policy Reviewed: 4/8/15 
Adm. Regulation None