INVESTMENTS/GIFTS 
 
Investment of Funds   P-8252 
Investments/Gifts 1 of 5 
 
1.0 Purpose 
1.1 The purpose of the Los Rios Community College District investment of funds 
District Policy is to delineate the responsibility for investment of District funds 
between the County Treasury and the District. The purpose also is to establish 
cash management and investments guidelines for District officials responsible for 
the stewardship of District funds maintained outside the County Treasury. 
2.0 Funds Held at County Treasury 
2.1 Pursuant to provisions of the California Community Colleges Budget and 
Accounting Manual (BAM), the District shall use the County Treasury for 
deposits and disbursements of moneys except for those funds noted below: 
2.1.1 Agency funds 
2.1.2 Enterprise funds 
2.1.3 Moneys held for payment of security of bonds or other indebtedness 
2.1.4 Fund designated for retiree health benefits 
2.2 To facilitate depositing and transfer of funds to the County Treasury, the District 
may establish clearing bank accounts. All moneys in such accounts shall be 
moved to the County Treasury within a reasonable time period. Certain 
refundable deposits may be held in clearing accounts until they are refunded or 
forfeited. 
3.0 County Treasury Investment 
3.1 Investment of funds maintained in the County Treasury shall be delegated to the 
County Treasury and invested by the County Treasurer following appropriate 
Government Code and investment policies adopted by the County Board of 
Supervisors. 
3.1.1 In accordance with County procedures, District funds may be pooled 
with other local agencies and invested by the County Treasurer in 
accordance with Government Code, section 53635. 
3.1.2 The County Treasurer may separately invest in accordance with 
Government Code, section 53601, District funds deposited in the 
County Treasury not required for the immediate needs of the District, 
such as General Obligation Bond proceeds and Tax Revenue 
Anticipation Notes. 

INVESTMENTS/GIFTS 
 
Investment of Funds   P-8252 
Investments/Gifts 2 of 5 
 
4.0 District-Directed Investments 
4.1 District officials responsible for the stewardship of District funds have fiduciary 
responsibility and are subject to prudent investor standards for all investment 
decisions. District investments shall be made with care, skill, prudence and 
diligence. 
4.2 Agency and Enterprise funds not required for immediate needs. 
4.2.1 Agency and Enterprise funds not required for immediate needs may be 
invested in the Local Agency Investment Fund (LAIF) per Government 
Code, section 16429.1. 
4.2.2 The College President or Vice President of Administration is authorized 
to invest Agency and Enterprise funds at his/her College.  
4.2.3 The Chancellor, Vice Chancellor, Finance and Administration, and 
Associate Vice Chancellor, Finance are authorized to invest all Agency 
and Enterprise funds.  
4.2.4 Funds deposited with the LAIF shall be invested by the State Treasurer 
in securities prescribed by Government Code, sections 16430 and 
16480.4.  
4.2.5 Funds invested with LAIF shall not exceed fifty million dollars at any 
one time or the maximum amount as specified by the State Treasury 
guidelines, whichever is greater. 
4.3 Moneys held for payment or security of bonds or other indebtedness. 
4.3.1 The Chancellor, Vice Chancellor, Finance and Administration, and 
Associate Vice Chancellor, Finance are authorized to invest moneys 
held for payment or security of bonds or other indebtedness. 
4.3.2 Moneys held for payment or security of bonds or other indebtedness, 
including certificates of participation, may be deposited with the 
County Treasury or invested separately under the provisions of 
Government Code, section 53601.5, subdivision (l). 
4.4 Funds designated for retiree health benefits. 
4.4.1 Funds designated for retiree health benefits shall be invested pursuant 
to Government Code, sections 53620-53622 and District Policy. 
4.4.2 Authority to Direct Investments of Trust Assets. 
4.4.2.1 The Los Rios Community College District Board of Trustees 
serves as the administrator of the Plan and has designated that the 

INVESTMENTS/GIFTS 
 
Investment of Funds   P-8252 
Investments/Gifts 3 of 5 
 
Chancellor or designee(s) shall oversee the investment of the Trust 
assets. 
4.4.2.2 The Chancellor or designee(s) is responsible for the selection of an 
investment manager. The investment manager shall be approved 
by the Board of Trustees. 
4.4.2.3 The Chancellor or designee(s) shall provide a copy of the District 
Policy governing the investment of the funds to the investment 
manager. In addition, the Chancellor or designee(s) may further 
define investment objectives and limitations within District Policy. 
4.4.2.4 The Chancellor or designee(s) shall review investment activity no 
less than monthly. 
4.4.2.5 The Chancellor or designee(s) shall meet no less than semi-
annually with the investment manager regarding investment 
activity and returns. 
4.4.2.6 The Chancellor or designee(s) shall establish, with the investment 
manager, benchmarks for measuring the relative performance of 
the manager in managing the assets. The benchmarks should 
measure both return and risk. 
4.4.3 Investment Objectives for Retiree Health Benefit Trust Assets. 
4.4.3.1 The specific objectives for the investment of Trust assets are as 
follows: 
4.4.3.1.1 Safety of Principal – The preservation and safeguarding 
of principal is the primary investment objective. 
4.4.3.1.2 Liquidity – The investment portfolio should remain 
sufficiently flexible to meet cash requirements that may 
be reasonably anticipated.  
4.4.3.1.3 Public Trust – District officials shall avoid any 
transactions that might impair public confidence in the 
District. Investments shall be made with precision and 
care, considering the probable safety of the capital as 
well as the probable income to be derived.  
4.4.3.1.4 Rate of Return – The investment portfolio shall be 
designed to attain a rate of return at the market average 
or better through budgetary and economic cycles, 
consistent with the risk limitations, asset allocation, 
prudent investment principles, and cash flow 
characteristics identified herein. 

INVESTMENTS/GIFTS 
 
Investment of Funds   P-8252 
Investments/Gifts 4 of 5 
 
4.4.4 Asset Allocation. 
4.4.4.1 The table below provides the maximum asset allocation for each 
type of investment instrument. The asset mix may vary within the 
maximum limits based upon market conditions and the 
recommendation of the investment manager. At times, the asset 
allocations may exceed the maximum due to changes in market 
values. In those cases, the investment manager will re-balance the 
portfolio within the allocation limits expressed below within 
fifteen calendar days. 
Asset Category Maximum % 
All Stocks (Domestic and 
International) 
35% (International Stocks may comprise up 
to 10% of total assets) 
Fixed Income 85% 
Cash Investments 100% 
4.4.4.2 Within each category, the investments shall be adequately 
diversified consistent with the prudent investor standard. 
Diversification should include geographic and sector diversity and 
also include limiting concentration in groups of securities subject 
to a single significant economic, social or political event. 
4.4.5 Investment Restrictions and Prohibited Investments. 
4.4.5.1 The Chancellor or designee(s), subject to Board of Trustees 
approval, may restrict specific investments from the portfolio on 
grounds other than economic risk and reward. Should the 
Chancellor or designee(s) restrict security investments, a list of the 
prohibited investments shall be given to the investment manager. 
This list may be periodically updated. 
4.4.5.2 The investment manager shall not make any investment 
jeopardizing the tax-excluded purposes of the Trust within the 
meaning of the Internal Revenue Code, or engage in any prohibited 
transaction based on federal, state or other governing regulation. 
4.4.5.3 Investment in the following types of assets is prohibited: 
• Speculative, non-hedging transactions involving stock 
options, futures, or similar investments 
• Commodities 
• Letter stock, private placements, or direct placements 

INVESTMENTS/GIFTS 
 
Investment of Funds   P-8252 
Investments/Gifts 5 of 5 
 
• Intra-state stock offerings 
• Real estate 
• Closed-end investment trusts 
• Purchase of securities on margin, or lending or borrowing 
money 
• Short sales, or substantially similar transactions 
• Exotic derivatives that would materially change the 
duration, leverage or risk characteristics of the portfolio 
• Investments with limited market liquidity 
5.0 Annual Investment Activity Report 
5.1 No later than October 1 following the fiscal year end, the Chancellor or 
designee(s) shall prepare and present to the Board of Trustees an annual report of 
investments. 
5.2 The annual report shall include all District-directed investments including 
earnings from funds maintained and invested by the County Treasury and the 
Local Agency Investment Fund. 
6.0 Internal Audit 
6.1 The Internal Auditor may be directed to review the investment portfolio for 
compliance with the Board of Trustees investment District Policy on a periodic 
basis. 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 9/1/65 
Policy Revised: 2/4/81; 6/16/82; 5/3/89; 10/3/90; 6/21/95; 12/11/96; 11/7/07; 11/14/12, 
3/13/13; 2/11/15; 2/17/16 
Policy Reviewed: 2/17/16 
Adm. Regulation: R-8252