MEETINGS OF THE BOARD 
 
Collective Bargaining Proposals   P-3218 
Meetings 1 of 3 
 
1.0  Employer-Employee Relations (Gov. Code, § 3540 et seq.) 
1.1 The Government Code establishes the right of certain public school employees to 
select an employee organization as the exclusive representative in their employment 
relationships with the Los Rios Community College District. 
1.2 The Los Rios Community College District Board of Trustees shall enter into 
negotiations through the Chancellor, or designee, with the exclusive representative as 
provided by State law and, if agreement is reached, the Board of Trustees shall 
execute a written document incorporating any such agreements which shall be 
considered part of the established policy of the Board of Trustees.  
1.3 The Chancellor shall develop administrative regulations to implement this policy.  
(Gov. Code, § 3547) 
2.0  Procedures 
2.1 The District hereby establishes the following procedures for the presentation and 
adoption of all initial collective bargaining proposals, for the adoption of all new 
items of meeting and negotiating, and for the amendment of all negotiated collective 
bargaining agreements in accordance with Government Code, section 3547, and 
regulations of the Public Employment Relations Board: 
3.0  Presentation of Initial Proposals 
3.1 The collective bargaining proposal procedure begins when a request from an 
exclusive representative of a unit of District employees is presented to the Board of 
Trustees. 
3.1.1 The exclusive representative and the District shall each present its own 
initial collective bargaining proposal to the Board of Trustees at a public 
meeting.  The presentation shall be indicated as an "Information" item on 
the Board meeting agenda. 
3.1.2 The public shall have an opportunity to comment upon each initial 
proposal at a public hearing at a subsequent public Board meeting.  The 
public hearing shall be indicated on the Board meeting agenda, and shall 
be held in accordance with Section 5.0 below.  The Board of Trustees 
shall then receive each proposal. 
3.1.3 Following the Board of Trustees receipt of the District’s initial proposal, it 
shall adopt the District's initial proposal at a public meeting prior to 
negotiating on that initial proposal. That meeting may be the same Board 
meeting as the Board meeting at which public comments are received.   
The adoption shall be indicated as an "Action Item" on the Board meeting 
agenda.  The District's initial proposal may be amended after the public is 
afforded a reasonable opportunity to comment upon the proposed 
amendment at a public meeting.  Neither the Board of Trustees nor its 

MEETINGS OF THE BOARD 
 
Collective Bargaining Proposals   P-3218 
Meetings 2 of 3 
 
representatives shall engage in negotiations on an amendment until the 
amendment is adopted by the Board of Trustees at a public meeting. 
4.0  New Subjects of Meeting and Negotiating 
4.1 If new subjects of meeting and negotiating arise after the presentation of the initial 
proposals, the following procedure shall be followed: 
4.1.1 All new subjects of meeting and negotiating, whether proposed by the 
exclusive representative or the District, shall be posted by the District on 
the official District Office bulletin board in the District administration 
building.  No meeting and negotiating shall take place on the subject until 
the item has been posted for a minimum of twenty-four (24) hours. 
4.2 The Board of Trustees' vote on any new subject of meeting and negotiating proposed 
by the District shall be made public. 
4.3 If the vote is taken during a public meeting of the Board of Trustees, the vote shall be 
recorded in the minutes of the Board of Trustees and thereafter shall be a public 
record. 
4.4 If the vote is taken during a closed session, the vote shall be recorded on the posted 
notice of the new item, and shall remain posted for a minimum of twenty-four (24) 
hours. 
4.5 The Board of Trustees may, at its discretion, require that any new subject of meeting 
and negotiating proposed by the District be presented at a public meeting to afford 
the public an opportunity to respond. 
5.0  Public Hearing 
5.1 A public hearing, as provided for by Sections 3.1.2 above, shall be scheduled any 
time an initial collective bargaining proposal or an amendment to an existing 
agreement appears on the Board meeting agenda, and shall be held in accordance 
with the following procedure.  Public comment, other than that provided for by 
Sections 3.1.2, shall be received in accordance with the District’s Policy regarding 
communications to the Board of Trustees. 
5.2 Persons who wish to address the Board of Trustees on a collective bargaining 
proposal may do so when recognized by the President of the Board of Trustees and 
may speak for up to three minutes.  At the discretion of a majority of the entire Board 
of Trustees, time may be extended.  If there is not a majority to extend the time, the 
three-minute rule shall apply.  Time limits defined in this section shall be applied 
only to testimony on the subject of a collective bargaining proposal. 
5.3 Persons who wish to address the Board of Trustees on a collective bargaining 
proposal shall present a request to the Secretary to the Board of Trustees, giving a 
name, address and telephone number by 10:00 a.m. on the day of the Board meeting.  

MEETINGS OF THE BOARD 
 
Collective Bargaining Proposals   P-3218 
Meetings 3 of 3 
 
The request shall include the name of the organization or group represented, if any, 
and shall inform the Secretary that the statement relates to a collective bargaining 
proposal on the Board meeting agenda. 
5.4 New subjects of meeting and negotiating, which have been posted in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 4.1.1 above, may be the topic of a non-agenda item 
addressed by a member of the public in accordance with the District’s Policy relating 
to public participation at meetings. 
6.0  Information Available to the Public 
6.1 Information regarding collective bargaining proposals shall be made available to the 
public as required by law. 
6.2 The District's and the exclusive representative's initial collective bargaining 
proposals, new subjects of bargaining, and proposed amendments to executed 
collective bargaining contracts shall be public records.  Copies of any proposal shall 
be available at the public meeting when it is presented to the Board of Trustees as an 
"Information" item or copies may be obtained from the Director, Human Resources. 
7.0  Complaints 
7.1 Individual and/or groups wishing to make charges or complaints regarding alleged 
violations of this procedure by District employees may do so in accordance with the 
District’s Policy regarding complaints.  Such allegations shall be referred to the 
office of the Associate Vice Chancellor, Human Resources. 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 4/20/83 
Policy Revised: 4/17/91; 6/4/97; 11/13/13 
Policy Reviewed: 11/13/13 
Adm. Regulation: R-3218