ORGANIZATIONAL PROCEDURES 
 
Attributes and Conduct   P-3113 
Duties and Responsibilities 1 of 2 
 
1.0  Attributes and Conduct Guideline 
1.1 Although representing their own area of residence, Los Rios Community College 
District Trustees are elected to a Board of Trustees which governs a multi-campus 
community college district.  It is, therefore, incumbent on each Trustee to exhibit 
equal interest, loyalty and concern for all Los Rios Community College District 
Colleges and facilities, and not just for the College situated in the Trustee's area of 
residence. 
1.2 Board of Trustees members shall exhibit: 
1.2.1 A sincere and unselfish interest in public education and in the contribution 
it makes in the development of students. 
1.2.2 A knowledge of the community which the District is designed to serve and 
a willingness to assume a role of leadership in education. 
1.2.3 A sensitivity to the diversity of the residents of the District and a 
responsiveness to the needs and interests of students from all backgrounds. 
1.2.4 An ability to think independently, to grow in knowledge and to rely on 
facts rather than prejudices, and a willingness to hear all sides of 
controversial questions. 
1.2.5 A deep sense of loyalty to associates and respect for group decisions 
cooperatively reached. 
1.2.6 A respect for and interest in people, and an ability to get along with them. 
1.2.7 A willingness to work through defined channels of authority and 
responsibility. 
1.2.8 A willingness to devote the necessary time to become an effective Board 
of Trustees member. 
1.3 Board of Trustees members should be well informed on the problems to be 
considered. 
1.4 An individual Board of Trustees member has no legal right to promise action or 
correction, and has a moral obligation to refrain from doing so. 
1.5 Individual Board of Trustees members should inform the Chancellor of complaints 
and criticism even though no action is requested.  In turn the Board of Trustees 
should be kept informed by the Chancellor. 
1.6 Efforts should be made to seek agreement in the deliberate business of the District.  
Although differences of opinion may exist, both sides should examine their motives 
and objectives, and attempt to resolve public differences if split rolls frequently 
occur. 

ORGANIZATIONAL PROCEDURES 
 
Attributes and Conduct   P-3113 
Duties and Responsibilities 2 of 2 
 
1.7 The Board of Trustees shall maintain an effective program for new member 
orientation and ongoing Board of Trustees member development. 
1.7.1 The Board of Trustees President and the Chancellor shall conduct an 
orientation session for all new Board of Trustees members. 
1.7.2 New Board of Trustees members shall be encouraged to attend the new 
Board of Trustees member orientation programs of the California 
Community College Trustees Association and the Association of 
Community College Trustees. 
1.7.3 Board of Trustees members shall be encouraged to participate in 
professional activities designed for community college trustees.  
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 1/17/79 
Policy Revised: 1/14/81; 2/17/82; 4/17/91; 6/4/97; 12/9/98; 9/3/03; 12/15/10 
Policy Reviewed: 12/15/10 
Adm. Regulation: None