ACADEMIC STANDARDS 
 
Graduation Requirements  P-7241 
Graduation Requirements 1 of 6 
 
ASSOCIATE DEGREE REQUIREMENTS 
1.0 Degree Earned  
1.1 The degree of Associate in Arts, Associate in Arts for Transfer, Associate in Science, 
or Associate in Science for Transfer can be earned through any College in the Los 
Rios Community College District. 
1.2 The Associate in Arts degree and the Associate in Science degree may be conferred 
upon students qualified to transfer to a four-year college or university as well as upon 
those completing their formal education in a two-year vocational program as outlined 
in the catalog of any of the Colleges of the District. The Associate in Arts for 
Transfer degree and the Associate in Science for Transfer degree were created by SB 
1440 (2010) to allow students to transfer to the California State University with 
junior status upon the completion of prescribed requirements. 
1.3 In accordance with law and with the rules and regulations of the California 
Community College Board of Governors and the Los Rios Community College 
District Board of Trustees, the requirements for the degree Associate in Arts, 
Associate in Arts for Transfer, Associate in Science, or Associate in Science for 
Transfer are defined below. 
2.0 Associate in Arts or the Associate in Science Graduation 
Requirements 
2.1 Number of Units 
2.1.1 Satisfactory completion of a minimum of sixty (60) units of  degree-
applicable lower-division credit courses with a “C” (2.0) grade point 
average, provided that twelve (12) units must be earned in residence at the 
District. 
1.3.1.1 All reference to “units” in this policy is to “semester units.” 
2.1.2 Units of credit are assigned to courses based on the “Carnegie unit,” which 
assigns one unit of credit for three (3) hours of work by the student per 
week. Usually this means one (1) hour of lecture or discussion led by the 
instructor and two (2) hours of outside preparation by the student. In 
laboratory courses, three (3) hours of work in the laboratory are normally 
assigned one (1) unit of credit which may include some additional 
preparation outside of class time. 
2.2 Major Field of Study 
2.2.1 Satisfactory completion of a minimum of eighteen (18) units of focused 
study in a major or interdisciplinary area of emphasis from those specified 
in the catalog of each College with a minimum grade of “C” or the 
equivalent for any class in a major. 

ACADEMIC STANDARDS 
 
Graduation Requirements  P-7241 
Graduation Requirements 2 of 6 
 
2.2.1.1 A “major” is a focused program of study within a specific 
discipline, which may include some coursework outside the 
primary discipline.   
 
2.2.1.2 An “area of emphasis” is an interdisciplinary program of study 
encompassing a broad range of courses from multiple related 
academic disciplines, providing students with an academic 
pathway broader than a specific major but more focused than 
general education. 
2.3 General Education Requirements  
2.3.1 Each College of the District will publish in its catalog a specific 
philosophy of general education. The following will serve as a pattern for 
the Colleges in the development of their individual philosophy statements. 
2.3.1.1 The primary function of education is to transmit from each 
generation to the next the knowledge and skills requisite to enlarge 
the comprehension of our place in the universe. Los Rios Colleges 
are committed to the principle of providing general education 
which includes: English Composition, Oral Communication and 
Critical Thinking; Mathematical Concepts and Quantitative 
Reasoning; Arts and Humanities; Social and Behavioral Sciences; 
Natural Sciences; Ethnic Studies, and other courses that provide 
for life-long learning and understanding, and that explore the 
significance of work, production, consumption and leisure in the 
lives of individuals. All of these are basic and necessary to 
participate in and contribute to a balanced life in a democratic 
society that is diverse in its social, cultural, and educational 
backgrounds. 
2.3.1.2 A comprehensive education serves to develop the creativity, 
critical thinking, ethical behavior, and self-understanding which 
are essential to the attainment of personal goals and to participate 
in a society characterized by increasing global interdependence and 
by rapid and significant change. 
2.3.1.3 Therefore, the purpose of general education is to give breadth to 
the college experience, enhance the ability to learn, and insure an 
appropriate level of competency. The general education program 
thus provides coherence to undergraduate education and affords 
students the opportunity to develop an integrated overview of the 
diverse fields of human knowledge. 
2.3.2 The courses allowed by the Colleges of the District for the fulfillment of 
the general education requirements shall be introductory in nature and 
usually without course prerequisites. The content of the courses should 
encompass broad fields of knowledge, covering major principles and their 

ACADEMIC STANDARDS 
 
Graduation Requirements  P-7241 
Graduation Requirements 3 of 6 
 
applications to a wide field or fields. The intent should be to provide the 
students with an understanding and appreciation of a significant body of 
knowledge and give to the students a basis for evaluating the physical 
environment, the culture, and the society in which they live. 
2.3.3 Students receiving an Associate degree must satisfactorily complete 
twenty-four (24) units in general education selected from the following 
areas as indicated: 
2.3.3.1 Natural Sciences (three [3] units minimum) 
Courses in the natural sciences examine the physical universe, its 
life forms and its natural phenomena, helping the students 
appreciate and understand the scientific method, and the 
relationships between science and other human activities. This 
category includes introductory or integrative baccalaureate-level 
courses in astronomy, biology, chemistry, general physical science, 
geology, meteorology, oceanography, physical geography, 
physical anthropology, physics and other scientific disciplines. 
2.3.3.2 Social and Behavioral Sciences (three [3] units minimum) 
2.3.3.3 Courses in the social and behavioral sciences focus on people as 
members of society and develop awareness of the method of 
inquiry used by the social and behavioral sciences. They stimulate 
critical thinking about the ways people act and have acted in 
response to their societies and promote appreciation of how 
societies and social subgroups operate. This category includes 
introductory or integrative baccalaureate-level courses in cultural 
anthropology, cultural geography, economics, history, political 
science, psychology, sociology and related disciplines. Arts and 
Humanities (three [3] units minimum) 
Courses in the humanities study the cultural activities and artistic 
expressions of human beings. Such courses develop students’ 
awareness of how people throughout the ages and in different 
cultures respond to themselves and the world around them in 
artistic and cultural creation and develop students’ aesthetic 
understanding and an ability to make value judgments. This 
category includes introductory or integrative baccalaureate-level 
courses in the visual and performing arts, art history, foreign 
languages, literature, philosophy, religion, and related disciplines. 
2.3.3.4 English Composition, Oral Communication and Critical Thinking 
(six [6] units: three [3] units each from (a) and (b)) 
Courses in English composition, oral communication and critical 
thinking are those which use and examine principles and 
guidelines of clear and logical thinking and communication. 

ACADEMIC STANDARDS 
 
Graduation Requirements  P-7241 
Graduation Requirements 4 of 6 
 
Courses in this category should build upon rather than remediate 
verbal and quantitative skills. 
(a) English Composition. Courses fulfilling this requirement 
must be baccalaureate-level and include expository and 
argumentative writing. 
(b) Oral Communication and Critical Thinking. Courses 
fulfilling this requirement must be baccalaureate level and 
include oral and critical thinking courses. Critical thinking 
courses develop an awareness of the relationship of 
language to logic, resulting in the ability to analyze, 
criticize, and advocate ideas, to reason inductively and 
deductively, and to identify the assumptions upon which 
particular conclusions depend 
2.3.3.5 Living Skills (three [3] units minimum) 
One physical education activity course (with ADAPT, DANCE, 
FITNS, PACT, SPORT, or TMACT designators) must be taken in 
this area and a minimum of two (2) units from the other courses 
included in this category. Adapted physical education courses are 
available for students with documented physical disabilities. These 
Adapted courses will fulfill the graduation requirement.  
Courses in this area may be selected from a number of different 
disciplines that help students to acquire skills and knowledge to 
understand themselves as whole persons (integral to their 
environment). This category includes the study of courses that 
develop and maintain personal, social, physical and emotional 
well-being. It is the intent that this area include such courses as 
health education, human sexuality, marriage and family, nutrition, 
and personal adjustment. 
2.3.3.5.1 Students with medical excuses may petition to be 
exempted from the physical activity course requirement 
when appropriate adapted physical education classes 
are not offered at the location where the student takes 
the majority of their course work. 
Students not completing a physical activity course on 
the basis of this exemption shall be required to 
complete a minimum of three (3) units in other courses 
in the Living Skills area. 
2.3.3.5.2 Students in majors with forty-five (45) units or more of 
required coursework are exempted from the Living 
Skills requirement. Each college shall set up a process 
to apply this exemption. 

ACADEMIC STANDARDS 
 
Graduation Requirements  P-7241 
Graduation Requirements 5 of 6 
 
2.3.3.6 Mathematical Concepts and Quantitative Reasoning (three [3] 
units minimum) 
Courses in mathematical concepts and quantitative reasoning 
develop students’ abilities to draw conclusions from numerical 
information, use formal reasoning processes, practice 
computational skills, and apply mathematical concepts or 
formal reasoning to solve real-world problems.  Courses 
fulfilling this requirement must be at least college-level and 
include mathematics and quantitative reasoning courses, 
including logic, statistics, computer programming languages, 
and related disciplines.  
 
2.3.3.7 Ethnic Studies (three [3] units minimum) 
Courses in ethnic studies must be baccalaureate level and 
include courses in the four autonomous disciplines within 
Ethnic Studies or introductory courses which survey the four 
areas: (1) Black Studies, African American Studies, Africana 
Studies, (2) Native American Studies, (3) Chicano/a/x, 
Latino/a/x Studies/La Raza Studies, and (4) Asian American 
Studies. 
 
2.3.4 While a course might satisfy more than one (1) general education 
requirement, it may not be counted more than once for these purposes. 
Courses which are a part of the major requirement and meet the intent of 
these general education guidelines may be used to satisfy both 
requirements. 
2.3.5 Each College shall set up a process that will involve the review of courses 
submitted to meet the objectives and criteria of general education. 
2.3.6 Students who have been awarded a bachelor’s degree from an 
institutionally accredited institution shall be deemed to have fulfilled the 
general education course requirements for the Associate in Arts or the 
Associate in Science degree. Degrees from accredited institutions outside 
of the United States will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis. Degrees or 
courses from non-accredited institutions will not be considered.   
2.3.7 Students who have completed the requirements for the Cal-GETC lower-
division general education pattern will have satisfied the general education 
requirements for the Associate in Arts or the Associate in Science degree. 
3.0 Credit by Examination 
3.1 Any specific course requirement may be satisfied by the procedures established for 
credit by examination. 

ACADEMIC STANDARDS 
 
Graduation Requirements  P-7241 
Graduation Requirements 6 of 6 
 
4.0 Transfer Graduation Requirements (SB 1440): 
4.1 For curricula approved pursuant to SB 1440 (2010) by the Board of Trustees 
(approved curriculum), the graduation requirements for the Associate in Arts for 
Transfer and Associate in Science for Transfer degrees shall consist entirely of the 
following requirements which also satisfy all basic skills competency requirements: 
4.1.1 Successful completion of sixty (60) semester units eligible for transfer to 
the California State University, which shall include satisfaction of the 
following two (2) requirements: 
4.1.1.1 Completion of one (1) or the following General Education 
Patterns: 
4.1.1.1.1 The Intersegmental General Education Transfer 
Curriculum (IGETC), effective for students enrolled 
prior to Fall 2025; or 
4.1.1.1.2 The California State University General Education-
Breadth Requirements, effective for students enrolled 
prior to Fall 2025; or 
4.1.1.1.3 The California General Education Transfer 
Curriculum (Cal-GETC), effective for students 
enrolled on or after Fall 2025. 
 
4.1.1.2 Completion of at least eighteen (18) semester units in a major or 
area of emphasis identified in the approved curriculum 
4.1.2 A minimum grade point average of 2.0. 
5.0 Courses Specified 
5.1 Each College within the District shall specify in its College catalog the courses that 
may be taken by a student in each of the required areas listed above. Requirements 
satisfied at one College will be accepted by any other College within the District. 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 3/10/65 
Policy Revised: 12/6/72; 4/17/74; 1/28/81; 4/21/82; 1/19/83; 2/1/84; 7/27/88; 3/18/92; 
3/1/00; 11/5/03; 6/18/08; 3/14/12; 9/9/15; 5/10/17; 12/18/24 
Policy Reviewed: 5/10/17; 12/18/24 
Adm. Regulation: R-7241