EMPLOYEE DISCIPLINE 
 
Appeal Process P-6915 
Disciplinary Procedures 1 of 3 
 
1.0 Hearing Authority 
1.1 An employee's request for a hearing pursuant to Policy (P-6914), shall be 
presented to the Chancellor. 
1.2 The Board shall determine whether the hearing shall be conducted before the 
entire Board, before a hearing board consisting of one or more members of the 
Board and selected by the Board, or before a hearing officer appointed by the 
Board. 
1.2.1 The procedures outlined below shall apply equally to a hearing before any 
of the bodies referred to in Section 1.2 above, which shall be called the 
Hearing Authority in this policy. 
1.3 The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the following procedures: 
1.3.1 Time of Hearing - A hearing relating to the validity of the charges upon 
which the recommendation for disciplinary action was based shall be 
commenced not later than thirty (30) days after filing the request for 
hearing, except by mutual agreement. 
1.3.2 Notice of Hearing - The employee shall be given ten (10) calendar days' 
written notice of the date, time and place of the hearing. The method of 
delivery shall be personal or by certified or registered mail, postage paid, 
return receipt requested, to the employee's last known address. Notice by 
mail shall be effective at the time of postal deposit. 
1.3.3 Conduct of the Hearing - At the time and place designated, a hearing shall 
be held for the purpose of determining the validity of the charges and the 
appropriateness of the disciplinary action brought against the appellant 
employee. Such hearing shall be closed to the public unless otherwise 
requested by the employee in writing at the time of the request for a 
hearing. The employee shall be present and shall have the right to 
representation of the employee's choice, call witnesses, have the right to 
cross-examine witnesses, and may present documentary and demonstrative 
evidence. 
1.3.4 Access to Records - The appellant employee and the employee's 
representative, if any, shall be allowed access to any documents and 
District records, within the policies defining confidentiality, which will 
assist in adjudicating the complaint in the disciplinary action. 
1.3.5 Burden of Proof - The District shall carry the burden of proof in support of 
the disciplinary action. Both parties may call witnesses, shall have the 
right of cross-examination, and may present documentary and 
demonstrative evidence. 

EMPLOYEE DISCIPLINE 
 
Appeal Process P-6915 
Disciplinary Procedures 2 of 3 
 
1.3.6 Evidence - The hearing may be informal and need not be conducted 
according to technical rules relating to evidence and witnesses. Any 
relevant evidence shall be admitted if it is the sort of evidence on which 
responsible persons are accustomed to rely in the conduct of serious 
affairs, regardless of the existence of any common law or statutory rule 
which might make improper the admission of such evidence over 
objection in civil actions. Hearsay evidence may be admitted for any 
purpose but shall not be sufficient in itself to support a finding unless it 
would be admissible in civil actions. The rules of privileges and of official 
or judicial notice shall be effective to the same extent as in civil actions. 
Irrelevant and repetitious evidence shall be excluded. Oral evidence shall 
be taken only under oath or affirmation. 
1.3.7 Non-Disclosure of Proceedings - During the pendency of the hearing, no 
disclosure of the proceedings shall be made public without the 
concurrence of the Hearing Authority and the appellant employee. 
1.3.8 Continuance - At any time during the hearing, the Hearing Authority may 
order a continuance for a reasonable period of time. 
1.3.8.1 If an employee-initiated request for continuance is granted, the 
employee shall be deemed to have waived salary for the period of 
the continuance. Any request for continuance made less than forty-
eight (48) hours prior to the time set for the hearing will be denied 
unless good cause is shown for the continuance. 
1.3.9 Report of Hearings - Hearings may be conducted without a stenographic 
reporter or audio tape recording machine unless either party requests that 
the hearing be reported or recorded. 
1.3.9.1 Transcripts of Hearings - Transcripts of hearings shall be furnished 
on payment of the cost of preparing such transcripts. When 
transcripts are provided by the employees of the District, the cost 
shall be determined by the employee in charge of business affairs 
of the District. When transcripts are provided by an independent 
contractor, the cost will be established by the independent 
contractor. 
1.4 Decision of the Hearing Authority - The written decision of the Hearing Authority 
shall state the findings as to the validity of the charges upon which the 
disciplinary action is being recommended. The decision also shall state the action 
to be imposed. The action imposed shall not be more severe than that imposed or 
recommended by the Chancellor unless the employee is given notice of the 
intention to impose more severe action and a continuance for five (5) working 
days. Such notice may be given verbally at the hearing and the continuance may 
be waived by the employee. 

EMPLOYEE DISCIPLINE 
 
Appeal Process P-6915 
Disciplinary Procedures 3 of 3 
 
1.4.1 Board Determination - If the hearing is not before the full Board, written 
findings and recommendations shall be submitted by the Hearing 
Authority to the full Board for its approval. If the Board accepts such 
findings and conclusions, it need not review the record of the hearing; if it 
declines to accept such findings and conclusions, it must review the record 
or provide for an additional opportunity to be heard, after which it may 
adopt the findings and conclusions made by the Hearing Authority, or 
make its own findings and conclusions. 
1.4.2 Effective Date - Unless the decision provides otherwise, it shall be 
effective immediately. 
1.4.3 Notice of Decision - A copy of the decision, including notice of its 
effective date, shall be mailed promptly to the employee or the employee's 
representative by certified mail.  
1.4.4 Finality of Decision - There shall be no administrative appeal available to 
an employee other than as described in this policy. 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 10/67 
Policy Revised: 7/71; 12/3/75; 10/25/80; 10/20/82; 9/1/93; 7/16/97 
Policy Reviewed:  
Adm. Regulation None