EXPENDITURES 
 
Special Activities P-8361 
Special Activities 1 of 3 
 
1.0 Authority 
1.1 The Governing Board may initiate, sponsor, and carry on any program or activity 
that is not in conflict with or inconsistent with the purposes for which the district 
was established (Educ. Code 70901). In this regard, the Governing Board supports 
special activities which are consistent with the overall mission and/or educational 
activities of this district. 
2.0 Definition of Special Activities 
2.1 Special activities are those district or college sponsored functions or activities 
which: 
a) promote the understanding of district programs; 
b) increase community awareness and participation of our educational 
programs; 
c) promote individual or group support of our educational priorities; 
d) communicate the mission of the district; or 
e) commend exemplary service to this district and education. 
2.2 Special activities for District employees, governing board members and 
community meetings include the following types of meetings, events, functions or 
activities: 
2.2.1 Educational events which promote community awareness and expand the 
District's community outreach program;  
2.2.2 Educational activities which support designated community advisory 
groups;  
2.2.3 Community-sponsored or District-sponsored events requiring an official 
representative(s) from the district. Governing board member(s) and 
District employees may be the selected designated official 
representative(s); 
2.2.4 Functions for volunteers; new and retiring employees; 
2.2.5 Activities which improve employee morale or express timely appreciation 
of an individual's or group's contribution to education; and 
2.2.6 Activities which enhance and support international education. 
2.2.7 Educational and planning seminars, workshops and meetings for board 
members, employees and community members.  

EXPENDITURES 
 
Special Activities P-8361 
Special Activities 2 of 3 
 
2.3 Special activities that directly involve student participation such as functions 
recognizing academic or extra-curricular achievements or community service. 
3.0  Funding for Special Activities 
3.1 The Governing Board authorizes the Chancellor to promote and support the 
special activities which are consistent with the overall mission and/or the 
educational purpose of this district. 
3.2 The amount of annual funds appropriated in the general and instructionally related 
funds for special activities defined in this policy shall not exceed .08% of the 
general fund estimated revenues for that year. Expenditures shall be accounted for 
separately and shall not exceed the annual amount determined for each college 
and the District at the beginning of the fiscal year. 
3.3  District support of special activities, including financial support, shall require the 
prior approval of the Chancellor for District-sponsored activities or the college 
president for college-sponsored activities. All approved special activities shall be 
charged to the annual amount committed for this purpose.  
3.4 Appropriate expenditures for these special activities include the following: 
3.4.1 Food and non-alcoholic beverages; 
3.4.2 Meeting/food expenses incurred by the colleges' food service management 
programs; 
3.4.3 Meal expense of official district representative(s) designated by the Board 
or Chancellor; 
3.4.4 Rental of space and equipment; 
3.4.5 Framed certificates, plaques, trophies and other special recognition items; 
3.4.6 Flowers, cards, invitations; and 
3.4.7 Other incidental expenses relating to the activity. 
3.4.8 Expenditures such as speaker fees and honorariums for an approved 
special activity may be charged to the appropriate general fund account of 
the district. 
3.5 All expenditures incurred for the approved special activity shall be approved by 
the Chancellor or his/her designee for District-sponsored activities or by the 
college president or his/her designee prior to the payment of the invoice. 
3.6 The Governing Board shall periodically review the adequacy of funds provided 
for special activities. Any increase in the annual funds provided shall require 
board action. 

EXPENDITURES 
 
Special Activities P-8361 
Special Activities 3 of 3 
 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 11/1/89 
Policy Revised: 1/15/03 
Policy Reviewed: 9/24/15 
Adm. Regulation: R-8361