EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Intent and Accountability for 
Equal Opportunity 
P-9111 
Equal Opportunity in Human Resource Practices 1 of 3 
 
1.0 Board Intent 
1.1 It is the intent of the Los Rios Community College District Board of Trustees to 
implement fully an equal opportunity program that adheres to the equal 
employment opportunity policies of the Los Rios Community College District and 
the guidelines of the Board of Governors of California Community Colleges, and 
complies fully with the acts of Congress, the laws of the State of California, and 
the rules, regulations, and guidelines pertaining thereto. 
1.2 The Board of Trustees has the overall responsibility for insuring equal 
opportunity and equal employment opportunity in recruitment, assignment, 
promotion, retention, compensation, and staff development, and for improving the 
representation of underrepresented groups in all areas where unlawful 
discrimination, harassment, or exclusion has been shown. The Board of Trustees 
may delegate this responsibility to the Chancellor. 
1.3 All employees involved in the implementation of equal opportunity programs 
shall assume responsibilities and duties as outlined in the Administrative 
Regulations.  
1.4 The District and its Colleges in their human resource practices guarantee that staff 
members, applicants, and persons involved in employment relations with the 
District shall not be unlawfully discriminated against, harassed, or excluded from 
any benefits, activities, or programs on the grounds of one or more of the 
following actual or perceived characteristics, or due to the association with a 
person or group with one or more of the following actual or perceived 
characteristics: ethnic group identification, race, color, sex, gender, gender 
identity, gender expression, pregnancy or childbirth-related condition, sexual 
orientation, sexual identity, religion or religious creed, age (over forty), national 
origin, ancestry, physical or mental disability, medical condition, political 
affiliation or belief, military and veteran status, or marital status. Sexual 
harassment is a form of unlawful discrimination based on sex and is prohibited in 
the District/College programs and activities under Title IX of the Education 
Amendments of 1972, 20 U.S.C., sections 1681 and following (Title IX). The 
names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the District’s Title IX Officers and 
Equity Officers can be located here. It is the responsibility of the Chancellor, or 
designee, and the College to take remedial action in the event of unlawful 
discrimination against, harassment of, and/or exclusion from full participation. 
Procedures are to be established for due process for all parties in the adjudication 
of accusations of discrimination or exclusion (see R-9152). It is the goal of this 
District to: 
1.4.1 Provide members of underrepresented groups with models of their own 
race, ethnic, and cultural background and gender with whom they can 
identify and whom they can recognize as examples of occupational 
achievement at all levels and in all departments. 
1.4.2 Guarantee to all candidates the same opportunity for employment, 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Intent and Accountability for 
Equal Opportunity 
P-9111 
Equal Opportunity in Human Resource Practices 2 of 3 
 
advancement and change of assignment. 
1.5 Where evidence of unlawful discrimination, harassment, or exclusion based on 
any of the statuses enumerated in this District Policy is found: 
1.5.1 the District shall take appropriate steps to halt any unlawful 
discrimination, harassment, or exclusion and prevent its recurrence; and 
1.5.2 the District shall take appropriate steps to remedy the effects of any 
unlawful discrimination, harassment, or exclusion. 
1.6 It is the intent of this District Policy to direct the staff of this District to take 
action whenever and wherever an assessment of conditions indicates that 
underrepresented groups or persons with disabilities have been unlawfully 
discriminated against, harassed, or excluded from full participation in the benefits, 
activities, or programs of this District.  
1.7 When there is an underrepresentation in a job class or classes in the District 
workforce, the District practices and Policies shall be studied to determine if there 
are factors contributing to the unbalance. Employment practices which constitute 
barriers to equal opportunity shall be identified and corrective action designed to 
eliminate the barriers shall be taken. 
1.8 It is the policy of the District to ensure that an individual with a verifiable 
disability, visual or not, who needs a Service Animal may participate in and 
benefit from District and College services, programs, and activities and to allow 
the use of Service Animals on District/College property in compliance with the 
Americans with Disabilities Act, the California Fair Employment and Housing 
Act, the Unruh Act and all other relevant laws and regulations. The Chancellor, or 
designee, shall develop Administrative Regulations regarding Service Animals.  
1.9 The Chancellor, or designee, shall assure the formation of a Staff Equity 
Committee at each College. 
2.0 Staff Equity 
2.1 Colleges shall establish a Staff Equity Committee.  
2.2 The Staff Equity Committee shall work with the Equity Officer and shall consist 
of staff trained in equal opportunity, equity issues, and diversity.  
3.0 Internal Dissemination 
3.1 All District employees shall be made aware of the District’s equal opportunity 
plan. 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Intent and Accountability for 
Equal Opportunity 
P-9111 
Equal Opportunity in Human Resource Practices 3 of 3 
 
4.0 External Dissemination 
4.1 Recruiting sources and applicants shall be notified that the District is an equal 
employment opportunity employer.   
4.2 Community agencies, organizations, and educational institutions shall be notified 
of the District Policy in order to solicit their assistance in recruiting 
underrepresented groups (as defined in Title 5, § 59300), and disabled applicants.  
5.0 Staff Development 
5.1 The District Office and the Colleges will provide staff development opportunities 
as necessary to accomplish the District’s goals in accordance with collective 
bargaining agreements and District Policy. 
 (Formerly P-9112 and P-9113) 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 10/1/03 
Policy Revised: 4/13/11; 4/8/15; 11/9/16; 5/10/17; 11/7/18 
Policy Reviewed: 5/10/17; 11/7/18 
Adm. Regulation R-9111, R-9159