USE OF SCHOOL FACILITIES 
 
Ban on Alcohol on District 
Property (Exceptions) 
P-1414 
Civic Center Activities 1 of 2 
 
1.0  Ban on Alcohol; Exceptions for Events and Instructional Purposes  
(Business & Professions Code, § 25608) 
1.1 Except as provided in this District Policy, no person, group, or organization may 
acquire, possess, consume, sell, give, distribute, or otherwise deliver any alcoholic 
beverage to any other person, group, or organization in or on any of the Los Rios 
Community College District grounds, buildings, or facilities or any of its 
Colleges. Any violation may be punishable as a misdemeanor violation of 
Business & Professions Code, section 25608 or any successor statutes. Violations 
by District employees or students may be punished to the maximum extent 
allowed by law, and/or District Policy or Administrative Regulation including 
termination or expulsion. 
1.2 The following exception exists, pursuant to Business & Professions Code, section 
25608, subdivision (a)(2) or any successor statute: Alcoholic beverages may be 
acquired, possessed, or used in connection with a course of instruction (e.g. public 
safety courses) provided on College/District grounds, facilities, or buildings, and 
the person acquiring, possessing, or using alcoholic beverages has been 
authorized to acquire, possess, or use them by the Los Rios Community College 
District Board of Trustees or designee. 
1.3 The following exception exists, pursuant to Business & Professions Code, section 
25608, subdivision (a)(14) or any successor statute: Wine or beer may be 
acquired, possessed, used, sold, or consumed in connection with a course of 
instruction, sponsored dinner, or meal demonstration given as part of a culinary 
arts program, and the person acquiring, possessing, or using wine or beer has been 
authorized to acquire, possess, use, sell, or consume it by the Board of Trustees or 
designee. 
1.4 The following exception exists, pursuant to Business & Professions Code, section 
25608, subdivision (a)(10) or any successor statute:  Alcoholic beverages may be 
acquired, possessed, or used during events at a College/District-owned or 
College/District-operated facility or grounds. As used in this subsection, “events” 
means fundraisers held to benefit a nonprofit corporation. Before an event may be 
held, the sponsor shall obtain an appropriate liquor license for the event. “Events” 
does not include football games or other athletic contests or other athletic events 
sponsored by any college or school. “Nonprofit Corporation” means the Los Rios 
and College Foundations. 
1.5 The following exception exists, pursuant to Business & Professions Code, section 
25608, subdivision (a)(15) or any successor statute: Alcoholic beverages may be 
possessed, consumed, or sold during special events at College/District regional 
performing venues and other venues as described herein. As used in this 
subsection, “special events” means events held with the permission of the Board 
of Trustees or designee that are shows, private parties, concerts, theatrical 
productions, and other events held on those premises for which the principal 
attendees are members of the general public or invited guests and not students of 
the District. Special events do not include events sponsored by Student Body 

USE OF SCHOOL FACILITIES 
 
Ban on Alcohol on District 
Property (Exceptions) 
P-1414 
Civic Center Activities 2 of 2 
 
Associations, their components, student organizations, or events sponsored by the 
officers of student life activities. Before an event may be held, the College shall 
obtain an appropriate liquor license for the event.  As used in this subsection, 
“regional performing venues” means Folsom Lake College Harris Center for the 
Arts; American River College Performing Arts Center; Cosumnes River College 
Visual and Performing Arts Center; Sacramento City College Hughes Stadium 
and Performing Arts Center. Other venues at which alcohol maybe be served on 
campus include the Folsom Lake College Community Room, the Folsom Lake 
College Falcon’s Roost, Folsom Lake College FL 1-8, the Cosumnes River 
College Winn Center, the Cosumnes River College Center, the American River 
College Culinary Arts Building, the American River College Student Center, the 
American River College Kaneko Gallery, the rooftop of the American River 
College parking garage, the American River College Mather Center, and the 
Sacramento City College Fischbacher Fine Arts Building. Venue includes the 
open space immediately adjacent to the described area. The Chancellor or 
designee may designate other venues where alcohol may be served under this 
section. 
1.6 The Chancellor shall develop administrative regulations to implement this District 
Policy. 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 6/21/06 
Policy Revised: 2/13/13; 6/10/15 
Policy Reviewed: 6/10/15 
Adm. Regulation: R-1414