EXPENDITURES 
 
Contracts and Contract Procedures; 
Information and Communication 
Technology Accessibility 
P-8321 
Purchasing 1 of 4 
 
1.0 Authorization to Contract 
1.1 The Chancellor is authorized and empowered to contract in the name of Los Rios 
Community College District subject to provisions of law and to approval or 
ratification by the Los Rios Community College District Board of Trustees. (Ed. 
Code, §§ 81655 and 81656) 
1.2 The Chancellor is authorized and empowered to enter into emergency contracts 
subject to the provisions of Public Contract Code, §§ 20654 and 22050. 
2.0 Non-Discrimination and Affirmative Action for Contract 
Compliance 
2.1 Any contractor performing work or providing services for the Los Rios 
Community College District must certify that there is no discrimination in the 
company’s hiring or employment practices because of ethnic group identification, 
race,  color, sex, gender, gender identity, gender expression, pregnancy or 
childbirth-related condition, sexual orientation, sexual identity, religion or 
religious creed, age (over forty), national origin, ancestry, physical or mental 
disability, medical condition, political affiliation or belief, military and veteran 
status, or marital status. 
2.2 All contractors, subcontractors, vendors, and suppliers shall be notified of the 
District’s employment policy (compliance with Executive Orders 11246 and 
11375) and shall be requested to take appropriate action on their part. On all 
contracts and bids, contractors, subcontractors, vendors, and suppliers shall be 
asked to sign a notice of compliance, unless exempted by law. 
2.3 The Chancellor will ensure that District purchasing procedures will comply with 
state regulations on Minority, Women, and Disabled Veteran Business Enterprise 
Participation Goals. (Title 5, § 59500) 
2.4 The Chancellor shall ensure that District purchasing procedures comply with the 
District’s conflict of interest Administrative Regulations. 
3.0 Information and Communication Technology Accessibility 
3.1 Intent 
3.1.1 It is the policy of the District and its Colleges to work to provide 
Information and Communication Technology (ICT) that is accessible to 
its current and future students, faculty, staff, and other constituents and to 
make the District/Colleges accessible institutions. 
3.1.2 The District/Colleges are committed to working to provide websites, 
learning management systems, course materials, documents, and business 
applications that are usable by all current and future students, faculty, 

EXPENDITURES 
 
Contracts and Contract Procedures; 
Information and Communication 
Technology Accessibility 
P-8321 
Purchasing 2 of 4 
 
staff, and other constituents. 
3.1.3 Student, faculty and staff access to inclusive educational opportunities is 
one of the District/Colleges’ highest priorities and requires a community 
of stakeholders to design, monitor, and uphold accessible practices. 
Offices across all Colleges  must work collaboratively to provide an 
environment that protects the rights and dignity of students, faculty, and 
staff. 
3.2 Scope 
3.2.1 This District Policy applies to all ICT used to conduct official 
District/College academic and business functions.  
3.3 Definitions 
3.3.1 To make ICT “accessible” means to design the ICT to provide a person 
with a disability the opportunity to acquire the same information, engage 
in the same interactions, and enjoy the same services as a person without 
a disability in an equally effective an d equally integrated manner, with 
substantially equivalent ease of use. A person with a disability must be 
able to obtain the information as fully, equally, and independently as a 
person without a disability. 
3.3.2 An “accessible institution” is one that is comm itted to the goal that all 
students, faculty, staff, and constituents, including those with visual, 
auditory, physical, speech, cognitive, and neurological disabilities, can 
access the institution’s ICT. Specifically, they can perceive, understand, 
navigate, interact, and contribute to ICT because its content and content-
creation tools have been proactively designed to be accessible. 
3.3.3 “Accommodation” is an alteration of environment, curriculum format, or 
equipment that allows an individual with a disability to gain access to 
content and/or complete assigned tasks. 
3.3.4 An “adopter” of ICT is the faculty, staff or administrator that chooses to 
use ICT in conjunction with official academic or business functions of the 
District/College. 
3.3.5 “Americans with Disabilities A ct (ADA)” refers to the Americans with 
Disabilities Act of 1990. 
3.3.6 “Disability Services and Program for Students (DSPS)” provides a variety 
of academic support services to students with disabilities. DSPS’s goal is 
to provide students the opportunity to part icipate fully in all aspects of 
College programs and activities through appropriate and reasonable 
accommodations. 
3.3.7 “Information and Communication Technology (ICT)” refers to any 
information technology, equipment, or interconnected system or 
subsystem of equipment for which the principal function is the creation, 
conversion, duplication, automatic acquisition, storage, analysis, 
evaluation, manipulation, management, movement, control, display, 

EXPENDITURES 
 
Contracts and Contract Procedures; 
Information and Communication 
Technology Accessibility 
P-8321 
Purchasing 3 of 4 
 
switching, interchange, transmission, reception, or broadcast of data or 
information. Examples of ICT are electronic content, telecommunications 
products, computers and ancillary equipment, software, information 
kiosks and transaction machines, videos, IT services, and multi -function 
office machines which copy, scan, and fax documents.  
3.3.8 “Legacy ICT” is ICT created prior to the adoption of this policy that is 
not currently accessible. 
3.3.9 “Remediation” refers to the process of making legacy ICT accessible. A 
remediation plan is one that successfully modifies legacy ICT (document, 
website, etc.) so that it is accessible over a period of time. 
3.3.10 “Section 504” is a part of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 that prohibits 
discrimination based upon disability.  
3.3.11 “Section 508” A part of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 that governs 
accessibility of information technology (IT) in the Federal government, 
and in any state or locality that accepts federal funding. 
3.3.12 WCAG 2.0” or Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0 
defines how to make Web content more accessible to people with 
disabilities. Accessibility involves a wide range of disabilities, including 
visual, auditory, physical, speech, cognitive, language, learning, and 
neurological disabilities. 
3.4 Standards and Guidelines 
3.4.1 The District/Colleges shall  adhere to the following standards and  
guidelines related to accessibility of ICT: 
3.4.1.1 Sections 504 and 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973; 
3.4.1.2 Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act; 
3.4.1.3 Accessibility standards described in the Web Content Accessibility 
Guidelines (WCAG), version 2.0, levels A and AA, or the most 
current version approved by the Vice Chancellor of Education and 
Technology.  
3.5 Accommodations 
3.5.1 Faculty or staff r equests for accommodations regarding ICT or legacy 
ICT shall be resolved by the Vice President of Administration at the 
College in consultation with Human Resources. 
3.6 Selection of ICT and Technology Procurement 
3.6.1 Within 36 months of the adoption of this policy, all new (i.e. non-existent 
until after this policy was adopted) or redeveloped (i.e. existing before 
this Policy was adopted but substantially changed in terms of its 
functionality or structure after the policy was adopted) ICT shall be made 
accessible, unless to do so places an undue burden on the District/College, 
or to do so will fundamentally alter the nature of the educational program 

EXPENDITURES 
 
Contracts and Contract Procedures; 
Information and Communication 
Technology Accessibility 
P-8321 
Purchasing 4 of 4 
 
or service.. 
3.6.2 Staff and administrator adopters of ICT shall select ICT that is accessible, 
unless to do so places an undue burden on the D istrict/College, or to do 
so will fundamentally alter the nature of the educational program or 
service. 
3.6.3 The District/Colleges shall make ICT accessible in a timely manner and 
in such a way as to protect the privacy and independence of persons with 
disabilities. 
3.6.4 Where ICT cannot be made accessible, the District/Colleges shall provide 
equally effective alternative access to the student, faculty, staff or 
administrator. 
3.6.5 The District/Colleges shall purchase ICT that is accessible, as long as the 
technology is available for purchase and does not constitute an undue 
burden on the District/Colleges or result in fundamental alterations of the 
educational programs or services of the District/Colleges. 
3.6.6 Upon request by a qualified person with a disability, Legacy ICT shall be 
made accessible unless to do constitute s an undue burden on the 
District/Colleges or result in fundamental alterations of the educational 
programs or services of the District/Colleges.  
3.6.7 Where ICT is identified that is not accessible, the District/College shall  
promptly render the ICT accessible unless to do so constitutes and undue 
burden on the District/Colleges or results in fundamental alterations of 
the educational programs or services of the District/Colleges. 
3.6.8 Where ICT cannot be made accessible, the District/Colleges shall provide 
equally effective alternative access to the student, faculty, staff or 
administrator. 
(Formerly P-8311) 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 9/1/65 
Policy Revised: 1/23/74; 2/4/81; 6/16/82; 4/19/95; 6/10/15; 11/9/16; 10/16/19 
Policy Reviewed: 11/9/16; 10/16/19 
Adm. Regulation: R-8321