SEPARATION FROM SERVICE 
 
Emeriti 
 
P-6626 
Permanent Separation 1 of 2 
 
1.0 Policy on Emerita and Emeritus Status  
1.1 Emerita/Emeritus status is an honorary title awarded for distinguished service to 
the academic community. The Los Rios Community College District Chancellor 
or College President may bestow the title on a faculty member, classified staff 
member or administrator who is entering retirement or permanently severing his 
or her employment relationship with the District and meets the eligibility criteria 
below. The bestowal of Emerita/Emeritus status is a distinctive honor, not a right.  
1.2 Emerita/Emeritus may join his or her College Emeriti Association and obtain the 
benefits designated by this District Policy. 
2.0 Eligibility 
2.1 Emerita/Emeritus status is limited to tenured faculty members, adjunct faculty 
members, regular classified staff members or administrators who meet all of the 
following criteria: 
2.1.1 Have been employed by the College/District for at least five (5) years; and 
2.1.2 Retired or resigned from their employment with the District (adjunct 
faculty members may submit a letter stating that they intend to no longer 
seek further employment with the College/District [hereafter separation]); 
and  
2.1.3 Upon resignation, retirement, or separation are in good standing with no 
disciplinary issues outstanding. 
3.0 Procedures for Joining the College Emeriti Association 
3.1 Upon the resignation, retirement or separation, the person seeking to join the 
Emeriti Association shall submit an application for membership in the College’s 
Emeriti Association.  
3.2 If the person meets the eligibility requirements of Sections 1.0 and 2.0 above and 
submits the required fee, he or she shall be a member of the Emeriti Association 
at the College.  
3.3 To maintain Emeriti Association Membership, the Emerita/Emeritus must submit 
the required fee to the College’s Emeriti Association. 
4.0 Benefits for Emeriti Association Member 
4.1 As a member of the College Emeriti Association, a faculty member, classified 
staff member or administrator qualifies for the following benefits from the 
Colleges/District: 
4.1.1 Use of a District email account; 

SEPARATION FROM SERVICE 
 
Emeriti 
 
P-6626 
Permanent Separation 2 of 2 
 
4.1.2 Access to the College/District libraries with checkout privileges and 
access to databases when allowed by vendor licenses; 
4.1.3 A Emerita/Emeritus parking permit good for parking at the College where 
he or she is a member of the Emeriti Association;  
4.1.4 A Emerita/Emeritus membership card; 
4.1.5 Complimentary or discounted admission to College/District athletic and 
cultural events at the discretion of the sponsoring group; and   
4.1.6 Use of College computer resources at the College. 
5.0 Revocation 
5.1 The College Presidents are authorized to revoke Emerita/Emeritus status in their 
absolute discretion at any time. 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 6/8/16 
Policy Revised:  
Policy Reviewed:  
Adm. Regulation None