MEETINGS OF THE BOARD 
 
Public Participation at Meetings P-3215 
Meetings 1 of 3 
 
1.0  Public Participation 
1.1 The order of business of any official meeting shall include an opportunity for the 
public to address the Los Rios Community College District Board of Trustees on any 
item of business which is included in the agenda or on matters not on the agenda. 
1.2 The Board of Trustees reserves the right to fix such time limits on presentations as it 
deems appropriate to the occasion and may limit the number of speakers who appear 
before it in opposition to or in support of a given issue being considered by the Board 
of Trustees. 
1.3 The agenda of the regular meetings shall provide an opportunity for citizens to 
address the Board of Trustees. 
1.4 Except in emergencies, the Board of Trustees shall not attempt to decide upon any 
questions before examining and evaluating any information any person requests the 
Board of Trustees to consider. 
1.5 The Chancellor shall be given an opportunity to examine and to evaluate all such 
information and to recommend action before the Board of Trustees attempts to make 
a decision. 
1.6 If in the judgment of the Board of Trustees circumstances warrant, the Board of 
Trustees may hear a presentation not in conformity to Sections 1.4 and 1.5. 
2.0  Communications 
2.1 Letters addressed to the Board of Trustees shall be duplicated and sent to Board of 
Trustees members. 
2.2 Only those communications requiring Board of Trustee action shall be read at the 
Board of Trustees meeting. 
3.0  Persons Wishing to Address the Board of Trustees 
3.1 Provision is made on Board of Trustees regular meeting agendas under "Comments 
from Visitors" for persons wishing to address the Board of Trustees on matters of 
general interest within the jurisdiction of the Board of Trustees.  Comments from the 
audience on items on the agenda may be heard at the time that such items are under 
consideration, following the staff report and/or Chancellor’s recommendation on 
each item, or during the open communications section of the agenda at the discretion 
of the Board. (Gov’t Code, § 54954.3) 
3.2 Each person who wishes to speak must complete a card (available at the door) giving 
his/her name, address and the organization represented, if any.  The presiding officer 
may limit each person commenting to three (3) minutes, unless a majority of the 
Board of Trustee members present wish to grant extra time. 

MEETINGS OF THE BOARD 
 
Public Participation at Meetings P-3215 
Meetings 2 of 3 
 
3.3 Large groups and organizations wishing to appear before the Board of Trustees 
should identify one or two spokespersons who may: 
3.3.1 Introduce members who are in attendance in support of the group's 
position. 
3.3.2 Present a consolidated statement (approximately three (3) minutes). 
3.4 In order to facilitate complicated or extended presentations, all reports and other 
written material should be submitted to the Board of Trustees secretary (Chancellor) 
at least seven (7) days in advance of the Board of Trustees meeting. 
3.5 Persons wishing to comment on the nature of a position to be filled may do so in 
open meeting, but comments on the qualifications or fitness of any employee or 
prospective employee shall be made only in writing, and signed by the person 
submitting them.  Additional verbal comments on personnel matters shall be made to 
the Board of Trustees only in closed session at the will of the Board of Trustees.  
Any allegations made shall be signed and shall be transmitted in written form to the 
Board of Trustees and to the individual concerned, who shall have an opportunity to 
answer them at a subsequent meeting of the Board of Trustees, in either open or 
closed session, according to the individual's preference. 
4.0  Students 
4.1 Students attending the Los Rios Community College District have the same rights 
and responsibilities accorded to all citizens who wish to attend and participate in Los 
Rios Board of Trustees meetings. 
4.2 Students shall follow the established procedure stated above in requesting 
appearances before the Board of Trustees. 
4.3 The Board of Trustees shall refer student proposals to the Chancellor for examination 
and evaluation.  After examination and evaluation by the Chancellor, a 
recommendation shall be submitted to the Board of Trustees. 
5.0  Interruptions or Interference  (Gov’t Code, § 54957.9) 
5.1 Undue interruptions or other interference with the orderly conduct of the business of 
the Board of Trustees shall not be permitted.  Defamatory or abusive remarks are 
always out of order and the president may terminate the speaker's privilege of 
address if, after being called to order, the speaker persists in the improper conduct or 
remarks. 
6.0  Public Requests for Agenda Items  (Ed. Code, § 72121.5) 
6.1 Members of the public may request that items directly related to District business be 
placed on a future agenda.  The Board of Trustees shall determine whether an item 
should be placed on a future agenda. 

MEETINGS OF THE BOARD 
 
Public Participation at Meetings P-3215 
Meetings 3 of 3 
 
6.2 Requests for agenda items shall be submitted in writing to the secretary of the Board 
of Trustees.  The request must be in sufficient detail to provide for adequate 
preparation and notice.  The person requesting the item must be willing to meet with 
staff prior to the matter being scheduled.  The secretary may set the matter or 
otherwise dispose of it in accordance with this policy. 
6.3 Unless there is a valid business reason for doing otherwise, requests shall be 
scheduled in the order received. 
6.4 Requests must be received at least two (2) weeks prior to the meeting requested.  The 
secretary may defer the item to a future agenda if the secretary determines that such 
deferral is appropriate.  The decision to defer may, at the least, be based upon the 
following considerations: 
6.4.1 The orderly management of the Board of Trustees’ agenda including 
volume of items scheduled for a particular meeting. 
6.4.2 The amount of staff preparation needed for the item. 
6.4.3 The possibility that the matter is sufficiently germane to an item planned 
for a future agenda to allow for consolidation with that item. 
6.5 A request shall not be granted if it is repetitive of an item previously scheduled 
within the reasonable past. 
6.6 If the item is an appeal for which an appeal or complaint procedure is established, the 
appellant must have exhausted the administrative procedure before the appeal is 
scheduled. 
6.7 If the item is a part of the negotiations process, it shall be referred to that process and 
presented to the Board of Trustees through the negotiations process. 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 11/18/64 
Policy Revised: 3/24/65; 5/7/69; 10/15/69; 1/14/81; 2/17/82; 3/16/83; 4/17/91; 6/4/97; 
12/15/10 
Policy Reviewed: 12/15/10 
Adm. Regulation: None