ORGANIZATIONAL PROCEDURES 
 
Supervision and Control  P-3112 
Duties and Responsibilities 1 of 3 
 
1.0  General 
The Los Rios Community College District Board of Trustees has the responsibility for 
formulating broad public policy in community college education.  It shall function as the 
legislative and policy making body charged with the oversight and control of the Los 
Rios Community College District.  The formulation and adoption of policies shall 
constitute the basic method by which the Board of Trustees shall exercise its leadership in 
the operation of the District. The Board of Trustees shall delegate to the Chancellor the 
function of specifying required actions and designing the detailed arrangements under 
which the District shall operate. The Board of Trustees must be sensitive to the hopes and 
ambitions of the community, and be able to respond readily to community needs. The 
study and evaluation of reports concerning the execution of policies shall constitute the 
basic method by which the Board of Trustees shall exercise its control over the operation 
of the District.  Responsibility is delineated in four (4) areas: 
2.0  Responsibilities 
2.1 Leadership 
2.1.1 Philosophy:  To prepare, review and adopt a Districtwide statement 
indicating basic educational beliefs. 
2.1.2 Objectives:  To ensure educational quality and communicate the District's 
mission and goals to the community. 
2.1.3 Professional Leadership:  To determine the quality of leadership 
consonant with carrying out the established philosophy and objectives of 
the District; to select and appoint the Chancellor of the District and 
confirm other District Officer appointments. 
2.1.4 Fiscal:  To oversee the financial stability and accountability of the District. 
2.1.5 Academic: To be informed about and involved in the accreditation 
process. 
2.2 Adoption of Policies 
2.2.1 Personnel:  To establish clearly defined personnel policies that can be 
administered impartially. 
2.2.2 Academic Freedom:  To promote and support academic freedom within 
the Colleges and the District. 
2.2.3 Students:  To approve uniform policies regarding admission and retention 
standards; scholastic standards, record keeping, registration practices, 
student conduct, and student mobility from one College to another. 
2.2.4 Facilities:  To review and take appropriate action on matters relating to 
site selection and utilization and physical plant development. 

ORGANIZATIONAL PROCEDURES 
 
Supervision and Control  P-3112 
Duties and Responsibilities 2 of 3 
 
2.2.5 Finance:  To approve the annual budget; to review and approve 
expenditures; to approve matters of capital outlay; to establish procedures 
for accounting of receipts and disbursements of funds under the 
supervision of the District. 
2.2.6 Curriculum:  To approve all curricula and courses of study. 
2.2.7 General:  To formulate such other policies as are necessary to promote the 
programs of the District. 
2.2.7.1 All policies shall receive a first and second reading by the Board of 
Trustees prior to adoption. In circumstances where no policy issues 
are raised, and where only minor changes are made, a policy may 
be enacted in a single reading by the Board of Trustees. In 
exceptional circumstances where time is of the essence, the 
Chancellor may issue interim guidelines that temporarily amend 
policies until formal Board action can be taken. In these rare cases 
and before interim guidelines become effective, they shall be 
shared with the Board of Trustees President and relevant District 
constituent groups.  Interim guidelines shall not alter Board 
Policies subject to collective bargaining.  
2.2.7.2 Whenever a power is granted to, or a duty is imposed upon, any 
District employee, the power may be exercised or the duty may be 
performed by a person authorized by the employee, unless a policy 
or regulation expressly provides otherwise. 
2.2.7.3 The Board of Trustees shall regularly evaluate its policies and 
revise them as necessary. 
2.3 Evaluation 
2.3.1 Educational Program:  To examine follow-up studies and reports on 
student achievement and curricular offerings. 
2.3.2 Personnel:  To consider and act upon administrative recommendations 
concerning appointment, retention, or dismissal of faculty and staff 
members as required by State law. 
2.3.3 Employee Welfare: To review salary schedules, employee welfare 
programs, and working relationships at all employee levels. 
2.3.4 Board of Trustees: To perform regular self-evaluation of the performance 
of the Board of Trustees. 
2.3.4.1 The Board of Trustees shall set annual goals for the Trustees and 
Chancellor: the Chancellor shall set annual goals with the 
Presidents of the Colleges. 

ORGANIZATIONAL PROCEDURES 
 
Supervision and Control  P-3112 
Duties and Responsibilities 3 of 3 
 
2.3.4.2 The Board of Trustees shall review achievements related to goals 
annually and progress towards those goals at midyear.   
2.3.4.3 The Board of Trustees shall informally discuss their performance 
as a Board annually. 
2.4 Maintaining Relationships 
2.4.1 Community:  To consider communications and requests from citizens and 
organizations on matters of policy, administration and other items of 
public concern affecting the District; to provide means of communicating 
District Policy and decision to the community; to identify statewide 
community college issues, study them and, through regular Board of 
Trustee procedure, adopt District goals and positions for communication 
to legislators and state officials. 
2.4.2 Employees:  To provide for the establishment of the necessary procedures 
for the receipt and consideration of recommendations developed by 
management. 
2.4.3 All Segments:  To serve as a public forum for students, employees and 
citizens of the District on matters of District Policy. 
2.4.4 Participatory Governance:  To provide the opportunity for faculty, staff 
and students to participate effectively in District and College governance. 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 11/18/64 
Policy Revised: 12/2/70; 1/14/81; 2/17/82; 4/6/83; 4/17/91; 6/4/97; 12/9/98; 9/3/03; 5/14/08; 
12/15/10; 6/11/14 
Policy Reviewed: 6/11/14 
Adm. Regulation: None