GOVERNANCE 
 
Participatory Governance  P-3411 
Participatory Governance 1 of 2 
 
1.0  Definition 
1.1 Participatory governance is a collaborative goal-setting and problem-solving 
process built on trust and communication. The process involves representatives 
from appropriate constituent groups who engage in open discussion and timely 
decision-making in areas of Los Rios Community College District Policy 
development and implementation not specifically restricted by legal and policy 
parameters. 
2.0  Responsibility/Communication  
2.1 In all areas of the District where decision-making is shared, the principals 
involved must also share accountability. All parties involved in the participatory 
governance process recognize the responsibility to communicate the reasons and 
rationale supporting a decision to representatives of all appropriate constituent 
groups. 
2.2 In its role as the final decision-making body in the District, the Los Rios 
Community College District Board of Trustees shall give reasonable and due 
consideration to the recommendations and positions developed by faculty, staff 
and students through the participatory governance process. The recommendations 
developed through the participatory governance process will normally be 
accepted, and if a recommendation is not accepted, the Board of Trustees or its 
designee shall promptly communicate its reasons in writing to the affected 
participatory governance body. 
3.0  Accountability  
3.1 Accountability is defined as the obligation to perform, to justify, to explain and to 
be held responsible for the consequences and timeliness of an action or decision. 
3.2 Principles of accountability, as defined by the District, require the following 
elements: 
3.2.1 Measurable performance criteria, timelines, definitions of roles, clear 
evaluation of standards, all existing within a legal and fiscal framework. 
3.2.2 A process which designates levels of authority/accountability and areas of 
responsibility. 
3.2.3 Established and agreed-upon fallback procedures, should the process fail, 
thus allowing District and State mandates to be met.  
3.2.4 The realization that two or more separate constituencies can have shared 
accountability for decisions/recommendations.  

GOVERNANCE 
 
Participatory Governance  P-3411 
Participatory Governance 2 of 2 
 
4.0  Participation 
4.1 Participation in participatory governance should be broad-based. Participants are 
faculty, classified staff, students and administrators.  
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 12/12/90 
Policy Revised: 6/11/14 
Policy Reviewed: 6/11/14 
Adm. Regulation: R-3411