ATTENDANCE ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 
 
Accounting Procedures P-8511 
Support Documentation 1 of 2 
 
1.0 Attendance Accounting Standards 
1.1 The Los Rios Community College District shall maintain the necessary records 
for accurate reporting the attendance information in accordance with the 
Education Code, the California Community Colleges Student Attendance 
Accounting Manual (Manual) and Title 5. 
1.2 The Manual shall be adhered to in order to ensure that proper attendance records 
and system supporting documentation, and record retention procedures are 
maintained. 
2.0 Basic Attendance Requirements for State Apportionment Purposes 
2.1 The Chancellor or his designee shall prepare an academic calendar for each 
College annually. The calendar shall be adopted by the Los Rios Community 
College District Board of Trustees before January 15 of each year and as further 
described in District Policy (P-7123). Such calendar shall contain the statutory 
number of days required in an academic year as defined for complete attendance 
reporting for student census information. 
2.2 Student attendance information reported for State apportionment purposes shall 
be generated from courses or programs approved by the Governing Board, 
comply with applicable Title 5 requirements (sections 58100-58308) and as 
further prescribed by District Policy.  
2.3 Such courses reported for State apportionment purposes shall be conducted by 
appropriate academic personnel who shall maintain immediate supervision and 
control of the instructional activities. (Title 5, §§ 58056, 58058). 
2.4 All such courses shall be open to enrollment by the general public and in 
accordance with Education Code, section 84500 and Title 5, sections 58100-
58110, unless expressly exempted by statute. 
2.5 Attendance related to State apportionment funding shall be reported for California 
students only as defined in the Education Code and Title 5. 
3.0 Basic Attendance Reporting Responsibility 
3.1 The Colleges shall be responsible for the accurate reporting and maintenance of 
student enrollment/attendance data regarding the following: 
a) student registration 
b) residency status category 
c) student enrollment and disenrollment 

ATTENDANCE ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 
 
Accounting Procedures P-8511 
Support Documentation 2 of 2 
 
d) course categories—census and actual hours of attendance including 
apprenticeship hours and as further described in the Manual 
3.2 College administration and faculty shall be responsible for maintaining accurate 
enrollment information. In particular, as of designated census weeks, attendance 
information for courses reported on a census basis shall include only those 
students who are enrolled and actively engaged in the educational activity of such 
course. 
3.3 The District Office shall be responsible for the coordination and preparation of 
required attendance reports as prescribed by the California Community Colleges. 
Established filing dates for required attendance reports shall be followed. 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 11/9/83 
Policy Revised: 2/17/16 
Policy Reviewed: 2/17/16 
Adm. Regulation: None