STUDENT RIGHTS AND 
RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
Standards of Conduct P-2441 
Standards of Conduct and Due Process 1 of 2 
 
1.0  Student Conduct as a Condition of Enrollment 
1.1 A student enrolling in one of the Los Rios colleges may rightfully expect that 
students, faculty and administrators will maintain an environment in which there 
is freedom to learn. As members of the college community, students should be 
encouraged to develop the capacity for critical judgment; to engage in sustained 
and independent search for truth; and to exercise their rights to free inquiry and 
free speech in a responsible non-violent manner. 
1.2 Student conduct must comply with federal and state laws, college rules and 
regulations, and District policies and regulations. Students who violate such rules 
and regulations are subject to disciplinary action. 
2.0  Tolerance of Divergent Opinions 
2.1 Within any active college community there will be a difference of opinion on 
many vital issues which confront society. There is a legitimate need to examine 
and discuss these issues on a college campus.  Students should be provided 
opportunities to discuss such issues and be assured that peaceful protest on their 
part will be allowed and protected. The College shall establish procedures for 
orderly petition and protest. 
2.2 Discussions and protests which violate the rights, privileges and property of other 
members of a college community are not in keeping with the purposes for which a 
college exists. 
3.0  Violation of Rights of Others 
3.1 The violation of the legitimate rights of others, physical abuse and intimidation, 
violence, the destruction or seizure of college property, cannot and will not be 
recognized as acceptable tactics for expressing a point of view. Such behavior 
cannot be condoned in an academic community. 
3.2 It is the intent of this policy to protect the rights of all, minority and majority, to 
provide a climate of civility and rationality and to establish and declare clear 
opposition to violence as a form of persuasion. 
4.0  Computer-Related Crimes (Penal Code § 502) 
4.1 The Legislature has declared that individuals, governmental agencies and 
businesses should be protected from tampering, interference, damage and 
unauthorized access to lawfully-created computer data and computer systems. 
4.2 In furtherance of this protection, Penal Code § 502 specifies computer-related 
crimes and appropriate punishment for such violations. 
4.3 Penal Code § 502 mandates community colleges to include computer-related 

STUDENT RIGHTS AND 
RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
Standards of Conduct P-2441 
Standards of Conduct and Due Process 2 of 2 
 
crimes as a specific violation of college policies and regulations that may subject 
a student to disciplinary sanctions up to and including dismissal from the 
academic institution 
5.0  Standards of Behavior 
5.1 The colleges are expected to clarify those standards of behavior which they 
consider essential to their educational philosophies.  These general behavioral 
expectations and the resultant specific regulations should represent a reasonable 
governance of student conduct. 
5.2 Students should participate in formulating regulations on student conduct and 
these regulations should be published in the student handbook or a generally 
available body of college regulations. 
5.3 Students should expect uniform, objective and equal treatment for all who violate 
college rules and regulations. 
6.0  Disciplinary Action 
6.1 The Chancellor is delegated the authority to enforce such rules and regulations 
and shall establish the process for such enforcement. 
6.2 The Board authorizes the Chancellor to take disciplinary action for discerned 
misconduct and will follow the procedure of due process established in 
Regulation 2442. 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 6/30/65 
Policy Revised: 9/1/65; 4/23/69; 1/7/70; 3/15/72; 3/6/74; 11/19/80; 2/10/82; 1/10/90; 2/3/93; 
3/6/96 
Policy Reviewed: 2/19/15 
Adm. Regulation R-2441