MANAGEMENT & CONFIDENTIAL 
PERSONNEL 
Definitions and 
Responsibilities  
P-9011 
Definitions, Rights and Responsibilities 1 of 2 
 
1.0 Definition of Management Employees 
1.1 Management employees are employees in positions having significant 
responsibilities for formulating District policies or administering District 
programs.  (Government Code, § 3540.1(g)) 
1.2 Management positions are established in the budget. 
1.3 Management employees serve at the pleasure of the Board. 
2.0 Rights and Responsibilities of Management Employees 
2.1 Management employees are responsible to the Board through the Chancellor for 
administration of District programs. 
2.2 The essential responsibilities of a management employee are to provide 
management leadership and support to the Chancellor in order to achieve the 
District objectives. 
2.3 Each management employee shall perform job duties as provided in a job 
description approved by the Chancellor. It is the responsibility of the management 
employee to understand the duties and responsibilities specified in the job 
description. 
2.4 These policies and regulations shall apply to all managers except where they 
conflict with a manager's employment contract. 
3.0 Definition of Confidential Employee 
3.1 Confidential employees are those employees who in the regular course of their 
duties have access to or possess information relating to the District's employer-
employee relations. Confidential employees also support and strengthen the 
management staff in the administration of District programs. (Government Code, 
§ 3540.1(c)) 
3.2 Confidential positions are established by the Board.  
4.0 Rights and Responsibilities of Confidential Employees 
4.1 Confidential employees are responsible to their immediate supervisors and to the 
Chancellor for support services for District programs, and to the Board of 
Trustees. 
4.2 Each confidential employee shall perform duties as provided in a job description 
approved by the Chancellor. It is the responsibility of the confidential employees 
to understand and perform the duties and responsibilities specified in their job 
description. 

MANAGEMENT & CONFIDENTIAL 
PERSONNEL 
Definitions and 
Responsibilities  
P-9011 
Definitions, Rights and Responsibilities 2 of 2 
 
4.3 Except as specifically provided herein, confidential employees shall have the 
same rights and responsibilities as classified employees. 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 12/14/77 
Policy Revised: 8/15/79; 2/18/81; 6/16/82; 12/9/98; 10/1/03 
Policy Reviewed:  
Adm. Regulation None