EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Initial Selection: Management and 
Confidential Staff 
P-9122 
Recruitment and Appointment 1 of 3 
 
1.0 Authority 
1.1 The Chancellor, by direction of the Board of Trustees, is responsible for the 
selection process of management personnel. 
1.2 The Chancellor may delegate responsibility for preliminary screening, but final 
authority for the selection and recommendation of an appointee to the Board shall 
remain with the Chancellor. 
2.0 Selection Criteria 
1.3 In the selection of personnel for management positions other than lateral transfers, 
reassignments, or reclassifications, the following requirements are established: 
1.3.1 Applicants will meet the qualifications for the position as defined by the 
Board of Trustees and the Chancellor; 
1.3.2 The selection process, when a committee is used, will have representation 
from:  management, faculty, classified staff and the equity committee; 
1.3.3 The Chancellor’s recommendation to the Board will insure that human 
resource procedures were completed in accordance with the District's 
equity procedures. 
3.0 Educational Management Positions 
1.4 Educational management positions are those that are not part of the classified 
service.  When an educational management position is being filled, other than by 
lateral transfer, reassignment or reclassification, the following will apply: 
1.4.1 Applicants for educational management positions must meet the following 
minimum qualifications as have been established in consultation with 
representatives of the District Academic Senate: 
1) Possession of a master's or higher degree; and 
2) One (1) year of formal training, internship or leadership experience 
reasonably related to the manager's administrative assignment. 
1.4.2 The advice and judgment of representatives of the Academic Senate 
serving on the screening or interview committees will be relied upon in 
determining that applicants for educational management positions possess 
qualifications that are at least equivalent to the minimum qualifications 
defined in Section 2.1.1 of this policy. 
1.5 A management vacancy may be deleted or a new position established by the 
Board on the recommendation of the Chancellor. 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Initial Selection: Management and 
Confidential Staff 
P-9122 
Recruitment and Appointment 2 of 3 
 
4.0 Confidential Positions 
1.6 Except as otherwise provided, the selection of confidential employees shall be in 
accordance with classified human resources practices and regulations. 
5.0 Appointment    
1.7 The appointment of management and confidential employees shall be 
recommended to the Board by the Chancellor. 
1.7.1 The District Academic Senate may present its views concerning 
candidates' minimum qualifications to the Board of Trustees before the 
Board makes a determination on appointments to educational management 
positions.  A written record of the Board's decision and the views of the 
District Senate shall be available for review pursuant to Education Code 
' 87358. 
1.8 The Chancellor shall make acting or interim appointments. 
6.0 Faculty Service Area for Managers 
1.9 Criteria for District minimum qualifications and equivalencies as agreed upon by 
a joint committee of District Academic Senate representatives and representatives 
of the Board of Trustees are established in Policy and Regulation P/R 5121.  
Managers will be assigned a faculty service area (FSA) upon appointment, and 
may petition for additional FSA’s.  Decisions regarding the appropriate faculty 
service area will be made according to the pre-established criteria contained in 
Policy and Regulation P/R 5121. 
7.0 Participation in Retirement System 
1.10 All regular full-time management employees and confidential employees shall be 
required to participate in the State Teachers' Retirement System (STRS) or the 
Public Employees' Retirement System (PERS) as appropriate. 
1.11 New employees who are already members of STRS but are hired for classified 
service with Los Rios may choose between continuing with STRS or joining 
PERS.  New employees who are already members of PERS, but who would be 
eligible for STRS, may choose between continuing with PERS or joining STRS. 
1.11.1 The options under Section 7.2 above are subject to STRS and PERS 
regulations effective at time of hire. 
8.0 Police Records 
1.12 Fingerprinting 
1.12.1 All applicants shall be fingerprinted prior to employment with the District. 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Initial Selection: Management and 
Confidential Staff 
P-9122 
Recruitment and Appointment 3 of 3 
 
1.12.2 The Chancellor shall adopt appropriate regulations.  
 (Formerly R-9116) 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 12/17/77 
Policy Revised: 9/19/79; 2/18/81; 6/16/82; 2/21/90; 11/7/90; 12/9/98; 10/1/03 
Policy Reviewed:  
Adm. Regulation R-9122