FOUNDATIONS 
 
Auxiliary Organizations P-1612 
Recognition of Foundations and Similar 
Organizations 
1 of 9 
 
1.0  Recognition and Establishment 
1.1 Recognition of the establishment of an auxiliary organization by the Los Rios 
Community College District Board of Trustees pursuant to Education Code, section 
72672(c) and California Code of Regulations, Title 5, sections 59255 et seq. shall 
require: 
1.1.1 That a recommendation is submitted to the Board of Trustees by the 
Chancellor; 
1.1.2 A public hearing on the recommendation; 
1.1.3 Approval of the establishment of the auxiliary organization by the Board 
of Trustees, including a designation of the recognized services, programs 
and functions, and an identification of the number and categories of 
members of the Board of Directors of the organization; and 
1.1.4 A written agreement between the Los Rios Community College District 
and the organization specifying which functions described in California 
Code of Regulations, Title 5, section 59259 are to be performed. 
2.0  Recognized Services, Programs, and Functions 
2.1 Organizations may be established for provision of support services and specialized 
programs for the benefit of the District or any of the programs of the District. 
Services, programs, and functions which may be undertaken by auxiliary 
organizations include: 
2.1.1 Student association or organization activities; 
2.1.2 Alumni activities; 
2.1.3 Gifts, bequests, devises, endowments, and trusts; 
2.1.4 Public relations programs. 
2.2 No organization shall be authorized to engage in any other function unless the 
Board of Governors amends section 59259 of Title 5 by adding said function to the 
list of approved functions of auxiliary organizations; or unless said function is 
essential to satisfy the nonprofit corporation or tax laws of the State of California or 
the Federal tax laws. 
2.2.1 In accordance with Education Code, section 72671, functions may be 
performed by an auxiliary organization as part of a joint powers agreement 
with any Federal, State, or local government entity pursuant to Article 1 
(commencing with section 6500) of Chapter 5 of Division 7 of Title 1 of 
the Government Code. 

FOUNDATIONS 
 
Auxiliary Organizations P-1612 
Recognition of Foundations and Similar 
Organizations 
2 of 9 
 
3.0  Composition of Board of Directors 
3.1 The Board of Directors of each auxiliary organization shall have the following 
composition: 
3.1.1 Student Associations or Organizations. 
The Board of Directors shall consist of students. The District Chancellor 
may attend and participate in meetings of the Board of Directors in order 
to advise on policy and to provide for the control and regulation required 
by Education Code, section 76060. 
3.1.2 Other Auxiliary Organizations 
Any other organization established pursuant to section 72670 et seq of the 
Education Code shall have a Board of Directors as specified by the 
organization’s Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws and consisting of 
voting membership from at least one of the following categories: 
a. Administration and staff; 
b. Faculty; 
c. Members of the community; 
d. Students. 
3.1.3 Size of Board of Directors. 
The size of the Board of Directors shall be determined by the Bylaws or 
Articles of Incorporation of the organization. 
3.1.4 Professional Assistance. 
Each organization formed pursuant to section 72670 et seq of the 
Education Code shall have the benefit of the advice and counsel of at least 
one attorney admitted to practice in this State and at least one licensed 
certified public accountant; however, neither the attorney nor the certified 
public accountant need be a member of the Board of Directors. 
4.0  Business Meetings 
4.1 The Board of Directors of each auxiliary organization shall conduct business in 
public meetings in accordance with Section 54950 et seq of the Government Code; 
and shall, during each fiscal year, hold at least one business meeting each quarter. 

FOUNDATIONS 
 
Auxiliary Organizations P-1612 
Recognition of Foundations and Similar 
Organizations 
3 of 9 
 
5.0  Salaries, Working Conditions, and Benefits of Full-time Employees 
5.1 Except as otherwise provided in this section 5, the Board of Directors of each 
organization shall, pursuant to Education Code, section 72672(c), provide salaries, 
working conditions, and benefits for its full-time employees comparable to those 
provided District employees performing similar services. For full-time employees 
whose duties are not comparable to classes in the District, salaries shall be at least 
equal to salaries prevailing in other area educational institutions or commercial 
operations of like nature. The organization may withhold retirement benefits or 
permanent status benefits or both from temporary employees. For the purposes of 
this section, a temporary employee is: 
a. An employee for a research project, workshop, institute, or other special 
project funded by any grant, contract, or gift; 
b. An employee whose contract is for a fixed term not exceeding three years. 
5.2 The Board of Directors of each organization may withhold permanent status and 
benefits from executive employees. For the purposes of this section, an executive 
employee is any management employee with responsibility for the development and 
execution of auxiliary organization policy and includes, but is not limited to, general 
managers, managers, directors, etc., as determined by the Board of Directors of each 
organization. 
5.3 Should retirement benefits be provided, they may but need not be provided by the 
Public Employees’ Retirement System. A newly created organization is exempted 
from the requirement of providing retirement benefits for three years from the date 
on which the Board of Trustees recognizes the establishment of such organization. 
6.0  Expenditures and Appropriations 
6.1 The Board of Directors of an auxiliary organization shall approve expenditure 
authorizations. Appropriations of funds for use outside of normal business 
operations of the organization shall be approved in accordance with regulations and 
policies of the State Chancellor and District Board of Trustees. 
7.0  Accounting and Reporting 
7.1 The Board of Directors of an auxiliary organization except those exempted in 
section 72673 of the Education Code, shall: 
7.1.1 Utilize standard accounting and reporting systems established by the State 
Chancellor. 
7.1.2 Implement financial standards to assure fiscal viability of auxiliary 
organizations. Standards shall include provisions for professional 
management, adequate working capital, adequate reserve funds for current 

FOUNDATIONS 
 
Auxiliary Organizations P-1612 
Recognition of Foundations and Similar 
Organizations 
4 of 9 
 
operations, capital replacements, contingencies and adequate provisions 
for new business requirements. Organizations shall submit programs and 
budgets for review by the District Chancellor. If the Chancellor 
determines that a program or appropriation planned by an organization 
violates District Policy, the program or appropriation shall not be 
implemented. Programs and appropriations shall be reviewed for 
compliance with policies of the Board of Governors and the District. 
Non-complying programs or appropriations shall be discontinued at the 
direction of the Chancellor. 
7.1.3 The District Chancellor shall submit organization programs and budgets to 
the State Chancellor. 
8.0  Funds 
8.1 Funds of Student Auxiliary Organizations. 
8.1.1 Money collected by or on behalf of a student body auxiliary organization, 
except money collected from commercial services, shall be deposited in 
trust by the chief fiscal officer of the District. Funds of student auxiliary 
organizations shall, subject to the Chancellor’s approval and approval of 
the organization’s financial officer, be deposited or invested, pursuant to 
sections 76063 and 76064 of the Education Code. 
8.1.2 The chief fiscal officer of the District shall be the custodian of unexpended 
funds and money collected by or on behalf of a student body auxiliary 
organization and shall provide accounting records and controls for such 
funds. Funds may be expended by the custodian upon the submission of 
any appropriate claim schedule by officers of the organization. 
8.2 Trust funds shall be used for the purpose designated in the trust instrument. 
8.3 An organization’s funds shall be used for purposes consistent with District Policy, 
and shall not be used: 
a. To support or oppose candidates for public office, or to support or oppose 
any issue before the voters of this State or any subdivision thereof, except 
where the organization determines that an issue will have a direct benefit 
on education. 
b. To make personal loans for non-educationally related purposes, except 
when specifically authorized by a trust instrument under which the funds 
were received. 
8.4 An indemnity bond shall be obtained by organizations for fiscal officers who are 
responsible for handling funds. 

FOUNDATIONS 
 
Auxiliary Organizations P-1612 
Recognition of Foundations and Similar 
Organizations 
5 of 9 
 
8.5 Grants, bequests, trusts, donations and gifts accepted by an organization shall be 
maintained in accordance with the State Chancellor’s policies and regulations. 
8.6 Funds derived by an organization from indirect cost payments which are not needed 
to provide adequate working capital, reserve funds for current operations, capital 
replacements, contingencies and adequate provisions for new business requirements 
shall be appropriated according to District Policy; and regularly reported to the 
Board of Trustees by the District Chancellor. 
8.7 No funds or resources, except those derived from gifts or bequests, shall be 
transferred by the District, or by any program within the District, to any 
organization for the purpose of either avoiding laws or regulations which constrain 
community college districts or providing the District with an unfair advantage with 
respect to the application of any State funding mechanism. State funding 
mechanisms include, but are not limited to, general apportionment funding, capital 
outlay funding, Extended Opportunity Programs and Services funding, and funding 
for programs and services for disabled students. 
9.0  Authority and Responsibility of Auxiliary Organizations 
9.1 Organizations shall not offer courses or programs for which State funding is 
received. 
9.2 Services, programs and activities undertaken by organizations shall be maintained 
for the general benefit of the education program of the District. Upon Board of 
Trustees approval, an organization may assume any of the services, programs and 
activities listed in Section 2 of these regulations in order: 
a. To provide fiscal means and management procedures that allow the 
District to carry on educationally related activities not normally funded by 
the State; 
b. To provide effective operation and to eliminate undue difficulty arising 
from governmental budgetary, purchasing and other fiscal controls; 
c. To provide fiscal procedures allowing coordination of the auxiliary 
activities with the District in accordance with sound business practice. 
9.3 The District Chancellor shall decide whether a donor’s proposed unallocated gift to 
the District should be accepted by the District or referred to an auxiliary 
organization.  Gifts to the District shall be accepted pursuant to Education Code, 
section 72205. Gifts to an organization shall be accepted as authorized by these 
regulations. 
9.4 An organization may not enter into any contract or other business arrangement 
involving real property either by lease involving payments of more than $25,000 per 
annum and duration terms of more than one year, or by purchase without prior 

FOUNDATIONS 
 
Auxiliary Organizations P-1612 
Recognition of Foundations and Similar 
Organizations 
6 of 9 
 
consultation with the District Chancellor. 
9.5 Student loans, scholarships, stipends, and grants-in-aid to be awarded by an 
auxiliary organization shall only be given to currently admitted students. No 
scholarship, stipend, or grant-in-aid shall exceed the amount necessary to cover 
books, school fees, and living expenses, except as provided under Section 8.2 of 
these regulations. Records of financial assistance shall be sent to the campus 
financial aid’s office and documented on student financial aid recipient records of 
that office. Financial assistance provided from student body organization funds shall 
be in accordance with District Policies and shall not exceed amounts provided under 
regulations of Federal and State financial aid programs. 
9.6 The District shall maintain a list of all auxiliary organizations in good standing. 
9.6.1 All auxiliary organizations which, after review as specified by Sections 
10.2 and 10.3 of these policies, are found to be in compliance with 
applicable laws and regulations, shall be included. 
9.6.2 When the District Chancellor believes that an organization should be 
removed from this list, he/she shall give the Board of Directors of the 
organization notice of a conference to examine grounds for removal.  
Representatives of the Board of Directors may be heard at the conference. 
The District Chancellor shall decide whether the organization should be 
removed from the list, and shall report any action to the Board of Trustees. 
10.0 Record Keeping 
10.1 Records and Annual Audit. 
10.1.1 An auxiliary organization shall maintain adequate records and prepare an 
annual report showing its operations and financial status. 
10.2 Compliance Review by District Chancellor. 
10.2.1 The District Chancellor shall inspect and review organization procedures, 
practices, and activities for compliance with policies, rules and regulations 
of the Board of Governors and the District, and make recommendations to 
the Board of Directors of the organization at the end of the first complete 
year and at least every three years thereafter. The District Chancellor shall 
determine compliance after comments from the Board of Directors of the 
organization. 
10.3 Audit. 
10.3.1 Each organization shall have an annual fiscal audit performed by a 
certified public accountant in accordance with procedures prescribed by 
the Board of Governors, as contained in the California Community 
College Auxiliary Organization Accounting Reporting Manual. The 

FOUNDATIONS 
 
Auxiliary Organizations P-1612 
Recognition of Foundations and Similar 
Organizations 
7 of 9 
 
annual audit report shall be submitted to the Board of Trustees and the 
Board of Governor’s office within 30 days after receipt by the 
organization, and shall be a public record, except as otherwise provided by 
law. Audits may be conducted as part of a fiscal audit of the District itself. 
10.3.2 Organizations shall annually publish an audited statement of financial 
condition to be disseminated as widely as feasible and be available to any 
person on request. A reasonable fee may be charged to cover the costs of 
providing a copy. An organization that primarily serves the Board of 
Trustees shall comply by distributing the audited statements of its 
financial condition at regularly scheduled Board of Trustees meetings. An 
organization that primarily serves a single College of the District shall 
comply by: 
a. Publishing the statement in a campus newspaper; or 
b. Publishing a notice in campus newspaper indicating the on-campus 
location where the financial statement may be obtained or reviewed; or 
c. Publishing or noticing the statement in a campus bulletin or other 
appropriate medium if a campus newspaper is unavailable. 
11.0 Written Agreement 
11.1 A written agreement between the District and each auxiliary organization is required 
for performance of any of the functions listed in Section 2. 
11.2 The written agreement shall provide for the following: 
11.2.1 The services and activities of the organization. 
11.2.2 The reasons said services and activities will be performed by the 
organization rather than the District. 
11.2.3 Areas of authority and responsibility of the organization and the District. 
11.2.4 Facilities and services to be made available by the District to the 
organization. 
11.2.5 Rental to be paid to the District by the organization for the facilities used 
or services provided. The rental shall not require involved methods of 
computation, and should be determined in advance of the time it is 
incurred. 
11.2.6 Full reimbursement to the District for its services in support of the 
organization. Student body auxiliary organizations may be exempt from 
full reimbursement. Methods of proration shall be simple and equitable. 

FOUNDATIONS 
 
Auxiliary Organizations P-1612 
Recognition of Foundations and Similar 
Organizations 
8 of 9 
 
11.2.7 A simple, equitable method of determining in advance the organization’s 
liability for costs relating to federally-sponsored programs. 
11.2.8 Responsibility for maintenance and payment of operating expenses. 
11.2.9 Proposed expenditures for public relations. The organization may expend 
such funds as approved by its Board of Directors. The Board of Directors 
shall file with the District Chancellor a statement of policy on 
accumulation and use of public relations funds specifying procedures for 
solicitation of funds, sources of funds, amounts, purposes, allowable 
expenditures, and control procedures. 
11.2.10 Proposed disposition of new earnings derived from the operation of 
facilities owned or leased by the organization and provisions for reserves. 
11.2.11 Proposed disposition of new assets upon dissolution. 
11.2.12 The covenant of the organization to operate in accordance with sections 
72670-72682 of the Education Code and with the regulations contained in 
Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 59250) of Chapter 10, Division 6 of 
Title 5 of the California Code. 
12.0 Use of Program, College, or District Name 
12.1 Except for student body associations organized and operating under Education 
Code, section 76060 et seq, no organization may use the name of the District or a 
College of the District or otherwise represent a relationship with either unless it has 
been established as an auxiliary organization by the Board of Trustees and is in 
good standing. 
13.0 Amendment 
13.1 The District Chancellor shall provide and revise rules and procedures implementing 
these regulations. 
14.0 Definitions 
14.1 Board of Directors. The term “Board of Directors” means the governing board of 
an auxiliary organization. 
14.2 Board of Trustees. The term “Board of Trustees” means the Board of Trustees of 
the Los Rios Community College District. 
14.3 Board of Governors. The term “Board of Governors” means the Board of 
Governors of the California Community Colleges. 
14.4 District Chancellor. The term “District Chancellor” means the Chancellor of the 

FOUNDATIONS 
 
Auxiliary Organizations P-1612 
Recognition of Foundations and Similar 
Organizations 
9 of 9 
 
Los Rios Community College District or designee of the Chancellor. 
14.5 State Chancellor. The term “State Chancellor” means the Chancellor of the 
California Community Colleges. 
14.6 District.  The term “District” means the Los Rios Community College District. 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 10/7/98 
Policy Revised: 2/2/00; 7/13/16 
Policy Reviewed: 7/13/16 
Adm. Regulation: None