EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Initial Selection: College President P-9124 
Recruitment and Appointment 1 of 2 
 
1.0 Authority 
1.1 The Chancellor of the Los Rios Community College District, by direction of the 
Los Rios Community College District Board of Trustees, is responsible for the 
selection process of the College Presidents. 
1.2 The Chancellor may delegate responsibility for preliminary screening of the 
College President, but final authority for the selection and recommendation to the 
Board of Trustees of a proposed College President shall remain with the 
Chancellor. 
2.0 Selection Criteria 
2.1 In the selection of personnel for the College President position other than lateral 
transfers, reassignments, or reclassifications, the following requirements are 
established: 
2.1.1 Applicants will meet the qualifications for the position as defined by the 
Board of Trustees and the Chancellor; 
2.1.2 The selection process, when a committee is used, will have representation 
from: management, faculty, classified staff and the equity committee; 
2.1.3 The Chancellor’s recommendation to the Board of Trustees will insure 
that human resource procedures were completed in accordance with the 
District’s equity procedures. 
3.0 Educational Management Positions 
3.1 The College President position is an educational management position. When an 
educational management position is being filled, other than by lateral transfer, 
reassignment or reclassification, the following will apply: 
3.1.1 Applicants for educational management positions must meet the following 
minimum qualifications as have been established in consultation with 
representatives of the District Academic Senate: 
1) Possession of a master’s or higher degree; and 
2) One (1) year of formal training, internship or leadership experience 
reasonably related to the manager’s administrative assignment. 
3.1.2 The advice and judgment of representatives of the Academic Senate 
serving on the screening or interview committees will be relied upon in 
determining that applicants for educational management positions possess 
qualifications that are at least equivalent to the minimum qualifications 
defined in Section 3.1.1 of this policy. 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Initial Selection: College President P-9124 
Recruitment and Appointment 2 of 2 
 
4.0 Appointment 
4.1 The appointment of a College President shall be recommended to the Board of 
Trustees by the Chancellor. 
4.1.1 The District Academic Senate may present its views concerning 
candidates’ minimum qualifications to the Board of Trustees before the 
Board of Trustees makes a determination on appointments to educational 
management positions. A written record of the Board of Trustees’ decision 
and the views of the District Academic Senate shall be available for 
review pursuant to Education Code, section 87358. 
4.2 The Chancellor shall make acting or interim appointments. 
4.0 Participation in Retirement System 
5.1 All College Presidents shall be required to participate in the State Teachers’ 
Retirement System (STRS) or the Public Employees’ Retirement System (PERS) 
as appropriate. 
5.0 Police Records 
6.1 Fingerprinting 
6.1.1 All applicants shall be fingerprinted prior to employment with the District. 
6.1.2 The Chancellor shall adopt appropriate Administrative Regulations.  
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 4/13/16 
Policy Revised:  
Policy Reviewed:  
Adm. Regulation R-9124