EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Sexual Harassment   P-5173 
Employment Policies 1 of 4 
 
1.0  Statement of Intent 
1.1 The Los Rios Community College District Board of Trustees is committed to 
providing an educational environment and workplace free from sexual harassment 
for all students and employees. Sexual harassment in any situation is 
unacceptable, and is in violation of state and federal laws and regulations. Sexual 
harassment is a form of discrimination based on sex and is prohibited by Title IX 
of the Education Amendments of 1972, 20 U.S.C., sections 1681 and following 
(Title IX). Sexual harassment that takes place off campus and which has an effect 
on campus is covered by this policy. Inquiries and complaints about sexual 
discrimination and harassment may be directed to the District/College Title IX 
Officer or to the United States Department of Education Office of Civil Rights.  
The names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the District/College Title IX 
Officers and Equity Officers can be located here. 
1.2 Where evidence of sexual harassment is found: 
1.2.1 The District shall take appropriate steps to halt any sexual harassment and 
prevent its recurrence; and 
1.2.2 The District shall take appropriate steps to remedy the effects of any 
sexual harassment. 
1.3 Formal complaints under those laws and regulations shall be processed through 
the procedures established by applicable state and federal agencies. (Civil Rights 
Act of 1964, tit. VII, § 703, as interpreted by Code of Fed. Regs., tit. 29, § 
1604.11; Ed. Amendments of 1972, Title IX; Ed. Code, § 200, et seq.; Gov. Code, 
§ 11135; Title 2, § 7287.6 and Title 5, § 53000, et seq.) 
2.0  Definition of Sexual Harassment (Ed. Code, § 212.5) 
2.1 Sexual harassment means unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, 
and other verbal, visual, or physical conduct of a sexual nature, made by someone 
from or in the work or educational setting, under any of the following conditions: 
2.1.1 Submission to the conduct is explicitly or implicitly made a term or a 
condition of an individual's employment, academic status, or progress. 
2.1.2 Submission to, or rejection of, the conduct by the individual is used as the 
basis of employment or an academic decision affecting the individual. 
2.1.3 The conduct has the purpose or effect of having a negative impact upon 
the individual's work or academic performance, or of creating an 
intimidating, hostile, or offensive work or educational environment. 
2.1.4 Submission to, or rejection of, the conduct by the individual is used as the 
basis for any decision affecting the individual regarding benefits and 
services, honors, programs, or activities available at or through the 
educational institution. 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Sexual Harassment   P-5173 
Employment Policies 2 of 4 
 
2.2 Sexual Harassment encompasses two kinds of harassment: 
2.2.1 “Quid pro quo” sexual harassment occurs when a person in a position of 
authority makes educational or employment benefits conditional upon an 
individual's willingness to engage in or tolerate unwanted sexual conduct. 
2.2.2 “Hostile environment” sexual harassment occurs when unwelcome 
conduct based on a person’s sex or gender is sufficiently severe or 
pervasive so as to alter the conditions of an individual's learning or work 
environment, unreasonably interfere with an individual's academic or 
work performance, or create an intimidating, hostile, or abusive learning 
or work environment.  The victim must subjectively perceive the 
environment as hostile, and the harassment must be such that a reasonable 
person of the same sex or gender would perceive the environment as 
hostile.  A single or isolated incident of sexual harassment may be 
sufficient to create a hostile environment if it is severe, e.g. a sexual 
assault. 
2.3 Sexual violence is a form of sexual harassment and is prohibited by Title IX. 
Sexual violence means physical sexual acts perpetrated against a person’s will or 
where a person is incapable of giving consent due to the victim’s use of drugs or 
alcohol. An individual also may be unable to give consent due to an intellectual or 
other disability. Sexual violence includes, but is not limited to, rape, sexual 
assault, sexual battery, and sexual coercion. 
2.4 For the purpose of further clarification, sexual harassment includes, but is not 
limited to: 
2.4.1 Making unsolicited written, verbal, visual, or physical contact with sexual 
overtones. Some examples are: epithets, derogatory comments, or slurs of 
a sexual nature; impeding or blocking movements or any physical 
interference with normal work; derogatory posters or cartoons. 
2.4.2 Continuing to express sexual interest after being informed that the interest 
is unwelcome.  
2.4.3 Within the work environment, engaging in explicit or implicit coercive 
sexual behavior which controls, influences, or affects the career, salary, 
and/or work environment, or any other term or condition of employment; 
within the educational environment, engaging in explicit or implicit 
coercive sexual behavior which controls, influences, or affects the 
educational opportunities, grades, and/or learning environment of the 
student. 
2.4.4 Making reprisals, threats of reprisal, or implied threats of reprisal 
following a negative response to a sexual advance. For example, within 
the work environment: either suggesting or actually withholding support 
for an appointment, promotion, or change of assignment; suggesting a 
poor performance report will be prepared, or suggesting probation will be 
failed. Within the educational environment, either suggesting or actually 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Sexual Harassment   P-5173 
Employment Policies 3 of 4 
 
withholding grades earned or deserved, suggesting a poor performance 
evaluation will be prepared, or suggesting a scholarship recommendation 
or college application will be denied. 
2.4.5 Offering favors or educational or employment benefits, such as grades or 
promotions, favorable performance evaluations, favorable assignments, 
favorable duties or shifts, recommendation, reclassifications, etc., in 
exchange for sexual favors. 
3.0  Complaint Procedure 
3.1 Any individual who believes that he or she has been sexually harassed is 
encouraged to follow the Discrimination and Harassment Complaint Procedures 
as set forth in the Los Rios Community College District Regulations. (See R-
2423, R-5172, R-6163, or R-9152, as appropriate). Throughout the procedures, 
the College President and the College/District Equity Officers will insure that 
confidentiality will be maintained and that due process will be followed with 
respect to both parties. In matters of sexual violence, consent of the complainant 
shall be required prior to further action being taken by the District/College, 
however, the District/College may take action when the District’s/Colleges’ 
obligation to provide a safe and nondiscriminatory environment overrides the 
complainant’s request for confidentiality. 
4.0  Non-Retaliation 
4.1 It is against District Policy and unlawful to retaliate against someone who files a 
discrimination or harassment complaint, who refers a matter for investigation or 
complaint, who participates in an investigation of a complaint, or who represents 
or serves as an advocate for a complainant or respondent. Raising a concern of 
sexual harassment or participating in the process as a witness or advocate shall 
not negatively affect the concerned individual's future dealings with the District, 
with the individual's employment, or with compensation or work assignments. In 
the case of a student, it shall not negatively affect grades, class selection, or other 
matters pertaining to the individual's status as a student of the District. 
4.2 In a situation where evidence is found that an allegation of sexual harassment is 
brought solely for the purpose of vexation, the appropriate disciplinary action may 
be taken. 
5.0  Administrative Regulations 
5.1 The Chancellor shall develop such procedures as may be necessary to implement 
this District Policy and provide a means of enforcement. The District and each 
College shall designate a District Equity Officer and other appropriate District 
employees to administer and enforce this policy District Policy within the District 
and at the Colleges. 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Sexual Harassment   P-5173 
Employment Policies 4 of 4 
 
6.0  Special Assistance 
6.1 Questions concerning the interpretation of this District Policy should be referred 
to the Equity Officers, the Title IX Offices, other designated District employees, 
or the Union representative. It is the responsibility of the Equity Officers to 
inform the complainant of other agencies available in pursuing a sexual 
harassment complaint. These include: the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commission; the U.S. Department of Education, Office of Civil Rights; the 
California Department of Fair Employment and Housing; and the Office of the 
Chancellor, California Community Colleges. 
(Formerly P-5118) 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 7/10/85 
Policy Revised: 12/6/00; 4/8/15; 11/7/18 
Policy Reviewed: 4/8/15; 11/7/18 
Adm. Regulation R-5111