COMPENSATION AND SCHEDULE 
 
Long-Term Professional Growth 
Leave 
P-9237 
Leaves and Absences 1 of 3 
 
1.0 Purpose of Long-Term Professional Growth Leave - Management  
1.1 Upon recommendation of the Chancellor, the Board may grant a leave to 
management employees for purposes which will benefit the District and enhance 
the management abilities of the employee. Such leaves may include, but are not 
limited to, study, training program, educational improvement, research or other 
activity necessary to respond to changing educational conditions and student 
needs. (Education Code §  87764 and § 88190) 
1.2 Such leaves shall not be granted for the purpose of accepting gainful employment. 
1.3 Generally, the leave will be granted for not less than one (1) semester nor more 
than two (2) consecutive semesters. No combination of Long-Term Professional 
Growth Leave and Short-Term Professional Growth Leave or vacation shall be 
granted. 
2.0 Service and Compensation During Leave  
2.1 The employee may be granted full compensation for one (1) semester or one-half 
salary for one (1) year for such leaves. The employee shall sign an agreement to 
repay the District a proportionate amount of the compensation received during a 
leave if the employee chooses to leave District employment less than one year 
following completion of the leave.  
2.2 Recipients of Long-Term Professional Growth leave may receive grants, stipends 
and honoraria from other agencies or educational institutions when temporary 
employment is part of a training program. 
2.3 An employee granted such a leave shall retain all District granted benefits in 
force. 
2.4 The Chancellor is authorized to provide substitute coverage during such leaves. 
3.0 Reinstatement After Leave 
3.1 Upon returning to the District from such leave, the employee shall return to the 
former position, or a position of the same classification held before taking the 
leave. 
3.2 Personnel on Long-Term Professional Growth Leave must notify the District of 
their intentions to return to District employment at least ninety (90) days prior to 
the expiration of such leave. 
3.3 Such leaves shall not be deemed a break in continuity of service. 

COMPENSATION AND SCHEDULE 
 
Long-Term Professional Growth 
Leave 
P-9237 
Leaves and Absences 2 of 3 
 
4.0 Purpose of Long-Term Professional Growth Leave - Confidential 
Employees 
4.1 Upon recommendation of the Chancellor, the Board may grant a leave to 
confidential employees for purposes which will benefit the District and enhance 
the abilities of the employee. Such leaves may include, but are not limited to, 
study, temporary employment as part of a training program, educational 
improvement, research or other activity necessary to respond to changing 
educational conditions and student needs. (Education Code § 88190) 
4.2 Such leaves shall not be granted for the purpose of accepting other permanent 
employment. 
4.3 Generally, the leave will be granted for not less than one (1) semester nor more 
than three (3) consecutive semesters. No combination of Long-Term Professional 
Growth Leave and Short-Term Professional Growth Leave or vacation shall be 
granted. 
5.0 Service and Compensation During Leave 
5.1 The confidential employee may be granted up to one-half salary for such leaves. 
If salary is to be granted, a service agreement with the District, as required in the 
Education Code, must be signed. (Education Code § 87770)  
5.2 Recipients of Long-Term Professional Growth Leave may receive compensation 
from other agencies or school districts when temporary employment is part of a 
training program. 
5.3 An employee granted such a leave without pay may keep the District health 
insurance benefits in force as provided in the plans by paying the monthly 
premiums and costs to the District during the leave. 
5.4 The Chancellor is authorized to provide substitute coverage during such leaves. 
6.0 Reinstatement After Leave 
6.1 Upon returning to the District from such leave, the employee shall return to the 
former position, or a position of the same classification held before taking the 
leave. 
6.2 Personnel on Long-Term Professional Growth Leave must notify the District of 
their intentions to return to District employment at least ninety (90) days prior to 
the expiration of such leave. 
6.3 Such leaves shall not be deemed a break in continuity of service. 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 1/4/78 

COMPENSATION AND SCHEDULE 
 
Long-Term Professional Growth 
Leave 
P-9237 
Leaves and Absences 3 of 3 
 
LRCCD 
Policy Revised: 2/18/81; 6/16/82; 7/5/89; 12/9/98 
Policy Reviewed:  
Adm. Regulation R-9237