INVESTMENTS/GIFTS 
 
Authorization of Signatories P-8315 
Contract Authority and Signatories 1 of 3 
 
1.0 Intent 
1.1 The intent of this policy is to balance the Los Rios Community College District's 
interest in allowing the expeditious approval of transactions with the District's 
interest in maintaining appropriate control of District expenditures and ensuring 
that the District is adequately represented from a legal perspective. 
1.2 This policy is intended to control documents that obligate the District to pay 
money to or perform a service for a third party (including a District employee) or 
where the District receives grant funds from a third party regardless of whether 
the document is described as an agreement, contract, memorandum of 
understanding or other written obligation. This policy is not intended to address 
administrative approvals within the District. 
1.3 To expedite the execution of certain District transactions, authorization is given 
by the Los Rios Community College District Board of Trustees to selected 
District positions to sign, on behalf of the Board of Trustees, any and all 
documents necessary to implement particular transactions. 
1.4 The primary purpose of external grant funds should be (1) to provide resources to 
move the District forward in its focused areas and/or (2) to provide incentives to 
improve teaching and provide better service to students. 
2.0 Board Action 
2.1 The approval of the Board of Trustees is required prior to the following 
transactions: 
2.1.1 Bid awards on facility construction projects above five hundred thousand 
dollars ($500,000). 
2.1.2 Hiring of tenure track academic employees and management employees; 
2.1.3 Collective bargaining agreements; 
2.1.4 Agreements settling lawsuits and claims in excess of Forty Thousand 
Dollars ($40,000) (The dollar amount for contract cases is those funds in 
excess of the amount owed under the original contract documents; the 
dollar amount for workers’ compensation compromise and release 
agreements is the amount in addition to amounts already paid in the 
ongoing case as required by law); and 
2.1.5 Real property purchases. 
2.2 The ratification of the Board of Trustees is required for the following transactions: 
2.2.1 Purchase of goods or services above the bid limit established in the Public 
Contract Code for which approval has not been previously obtained; 

INVESTMENTS/GIFTS 
 
Authorization of Signatories P-8315 
Contract Authority and Signatories 2 of 3 
 
2.2.2 Real property leases. 
2.2.3 Hiring of regular classified employees, long term temporary employees 
and non-tenure track academic employees. 
2.2.4 All other transactions as required by law.  (Cal. Ed. Code, § 81655.) 
3.0 Approval of Contracts and Grants 
3.1 To expedite the implementation of contracts that require ratification by the Board 
of Trustees, the Board of Trustees authorizes the Chancellor, or designee, to sign, 
on behalf of the Board of Trustees, any and all documents necessary for 
implementation. 
3.2 To expedite the implementation of all grants, the Board of Trustees authorizes the 
Chancellor, or designee, to sign, on behalf of the Board of Trustees, any and all 
documents necessary for implementation.   
3.3 All (a) grants, and (b) all contracts accepted by the Chancellor, or designee, on the 
Board of Trustees’ behalf that require ratification by the Board of Trustees, shall 
be submitted to the Board of Trustees at the next regularly scheduled meeting for 
ratification.   
3.4 Where a grant has been approved or ratified by the Board of Trustees, the 
Chancellor, or designee, may approve annual continuation, augmentations, 
amendments, renewals, extensions, or other modifications to grant programs 
without further action by the Board of Trustees.  
3.5 Where a contract has been approved or ratified by the Board of Trustees, the 
Chancellor, or designee, may approve any future augmentations, amendments, 
renewals, extensions, or other modifications to the contract without further Board 
action.  However, the renewal or extension of all contracts over $15,000 shall be 
submitted to the Board of Trustees for ratification. 
4.0 Delegation of Authority 
4.1 Authority for all other transactions is delegated to the Chancellor who may adopt 
regulations authorizing further delegation. 
4.2 Delegation of authority pursuant to this policy and related regulation shall be 
specifically limited as set forth in the regulation. This is intentionally contrary to 
the general rule of broad and easy delegation set forth in District Policy P-4111, 
section 1.3.  
4.3 The Chancellor, in consultation with the Board of Trustees President, may take an 
action that normally would require the approval of the Board of Trustees if 
expedited approval is critical. Such action shall be scheduled for ratification at the 
next regularly scheduled Board of Trustees meeting. 

INVESTMENTS/GIFTS 
 
Authorization of Signatories P-8315 
Contract Authority and Signatories 3 of 3 
 
5.0 Administrative Regulations 
5.1 The Chancellor shall develop administrative regulations to implement this policy. 
 (Formerly P-4514) 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 9/1/65 
Policy Revised: 11/15/70; 11/15/72; 5/15/74; 1/14/81; 6/16/82; 8/7/91; 2/4/98; 3/3/99; 
1/15/03; 11/13/13 
Policy Reviewed:  
Adm. Regulation: R-8315