CONFLICT OF INTEREST CODE  Complimentary Tickets  
 
P-8621 
Complimentary Tickets 1 of 4 
 
1.0 Definitions 
1.1 “Ceremonial Role” shall mean an act performed at an event by the official as a 
representative of the Los Rios Community College District or its Colleges at 
the request of the holder of the event or function where, for a period of time, 
the focus of the event is on the act performed by the official. 
1.2 “FPPC” shall mean the California Fair Political Practices Commission. 
1.3 “Official” shall mean every officer, agent, employee, and consultant who is 
required to file an Annual Statement of Economic Interests (Form 700) 
pursuant to State law and the District’s Conflict of Interest Code (P-8611). 
1.4 “Ticket” shall mean: tickets or passes that provide admission to a facility or 
event for entertainment, amusement, recreation, or similar purposes, and are 
obtained by the District or its Colleges through one of the following means:  
1.4.1 As owner or sponsor of a facility or event.  
1.4.2 Received by the District/Colleges from a third party who does not 
earmark the use of the ticket for a specific official, and the use of the 
ticket is in the sole discretion of the District/College. 
1.4.3 Purchased by the District/Colleges, or received pursuant to a 
sponsorship or similar contract.  
2.0 Public and Governmental Purpose 
2.1 The Los Rios Community College District Board of Trustees delegates the 
authority to distribute any tickets in accordance with this District Policy for 
use by the District’s Trustees or the Deputy Chancellor (or Vice Chancellor, 
Finance and Administration, if there is no Deputy Chancellor) to the 
Chancellor. The District delegates the authority to distribute any other tickets 
in accordance with this District Policy to the District’s Deputy Chancellor (or 
Vice Chancellor, Finance and Administration, if there is no Deputy 
Chancellor), or designee. The Los Rios Community College District Board of 
Trustees delegates the authority to distribute any tickets for performances at 
the Harris Center to the President of Folsom Lake College, or designee.   
2.2 Tickets may be distributed under this Policy to appropriate recipients, 
including District/College officials, for the public purposes of: 
2.2.1 Ceremonial occasions. 
2.2.2 Official welcoming of visiting dignitaries. 
2.2.3 Exchange programs with foreign officials and dignitaries. 
2.2.4 Community or economic outreach and development. 

CONFLICT OF INTEREST CODE  Complimentary Tickets  
 
P-8621 
Complimentary Tickets 2 of 4 
 
2.2.5 Recognition for direct involvement in District/College-related 
projects/programs. 
2.2.6 Advertising and promoting the District and its four accredited Colleges 
(American River College, Cosumnes River College, Folsom Lake 
College, and Sacramento City College). 
2.2.7 Monitoring and evaluating value of District/College sponsored events 
to the District/College and their compliance with District/College 
Policies, agreements and other requirements.  
2.2.8 Intergovernmental relations purposes. 
2.2.9 Supporting local nonprofit and educational activities in the community 
that support and complement the mission of the District/Colleges.  
2.2.10 Sponsorship agreements involving private events where the District 
specifically seeks to enhance the District’s/College’s reputation. 
2.2.11 Employment retention programs. 
2.2.12 Special outreach programs for students, veterans, faculty, teachers, 
staff, and other civil service occupations. 
2.2.13 Any purpose similar to those above. 
2.3 Receipt of consideration of equal or greater value by the District from the 
recipient shall be presumed if the tickets and/or passes are distributed pursuant 
to this District Policy.   
3.0 Ticket Transfer Limitations 
3.1 Tickets received by officials under this District Policy are for the purpose of 
having that official participate in the event.   
3.2 An official may transfer his or her ticket to a guest, as well as the official’s 
immediate family, solely for their attendance at the event. All other transfers 
are prohibited, and no such transferred tickets may be resold. 
3.3 Each ticket recipient may be offered one additional ticket for her or his 
immediate family member. 
3.4 Any official, any member of the official’s immediate family, or guest of the 
official may return any ticket unused to the District for redistribution pursuant 
to this District Policy. 

CONFLICT OF INTEREST CODE  Complimentary Tickets  
 
P-8621 
Complimentary Tickets 3 of 4 
 
4.0 Public Disclosures 
4.1 A record of each ticket distributed under this District Policy shall be 
completed and forwarded to the FPPC on its form.   
4.2 The form shall be a public record and is subject to inspection and copying.  
5.0 Exceptions 
5.1 Tickets provided to officials for an event at which the official plays a 
ceremonial role shall not constitute a gift and need not be reported on the 
official’s Form 700, but must be reported under the Public Disclosure 
provision above. 
5.2 The attendance of an official for the purposes of carrying out the employee’s 
job duties or for the purpose of providing services on behalf of the 
District/College for the event shall not be considered the distribution of a 
complimentary ticket and need not be reported on the official’s Form 700, nor 
reported under the Public Disclosure provision above. 
5.3 This District Policy does not apply to tickets provided to an official by sources 
other than the District/College.  
5.4 This District Policy does not apply to tickets provided to the District 
earmarked for a particular official. Those tickets are considered gifts or 
income to that appropriate official. If these tickets are not returned unused to 
the donor within 30 days of receipt, the official must comply with the 
applicable FPPC gift limit and reporting regulations.  
5.5 This District Policy does not apply to tickets for which the official pays the 
provider of the ticket the fair market value of the ticket and those tickets need 
not be reported on the official’s Form 700, nor reported under the Public 
Disclosure provision above. 
5.6 This District Policy does not apply to tickets to amateur events performed by 
the students of the District/College and those tickets need not be reported on 
the official’s Form 700, nor reported under the Public Disclosure provision 
above. 
5.7 This District Policy does not apply to tickets or passes that are distributed by 
District/College officials outside of the requirements of this District Policy 
(i.e., by someone other than the Board’s designees, providing more than two 
tickets to a single official, etc.). The person who receives and distributes 
tickets or passes under this section is responsible for reporting the distribution 
on the official’s Form 700, if required. 
5.8 Any ticket or pass that is acquired by the District by purchase, contract, or 
because the District controls the event and is distributed to a public official, 

CONFLICT OF INTEREST CODE  Complimentary Tickets  
 
P-8621 
Complimentary Tickets 4 of 4 
 
except for an elected official or member of the Board of Trustees, for: (1) the 
official’s personal use, (2) to support general employee morale, (3) retention, 
or (4) to reward public service shall be deemed to be for personal use and is 
not reportable on the official’s Form 700, but shall be reported under the 
Public Disclosure provision above. 
6.0 Administrative Regulations 
6.1 The Chancellor shall develop Administrative Regulations to implement this 
District Policy. 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 2/13/13 
Policy Revised: 4/8/15 
Policy Reviewed: 4/8/15 
Adm. Regulation: R-8621