INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 
 
Controversial Issues P-7142 
Curriculum 1 of 2 
 
1.0  Free Expression 
1.1 The Board of Trustees adopts the position that in a world of rapid change and 
recurrent crises, a college best serves its community, not as a stronghold of rigid 
tradition, but as an open intellectual forum where varying shades of opinion may 
be freely expressed and fairly debated. Positive values evolve from a free 
exchange of ideas among informed citizens, and the progressive evolution of 
American institutions may depend upon their quality of flexibility in meeting 
changing social and economic needs. 
2.0  Basic Assumptions 
2.1 That a free society functions efficiently only if its citizens have the right to 
discuss, to debate, and to agree or disagree constructively. 
2.2 That the constitutional guarantee of freedom of speech is meaningful only to the 
extent that the majority is willing to hear honest expressions of unpopular ideas 
by minority groups. 
2.3 That an educated citizenry, fully aware of all the evidence, is best able to preserve 
the valuable heritage of American democratic institutions. 
2.4 That the community college has an obligation to its citizens to promote healthy 
discussion as an educative force. 
2.5 That our way of life is attractive enough, and our institutions are sturdy enough to 
stand comparison with any which exist in any culture. 
3.0  Discussion of Controversial Issues 
3.1 The Board endorses the principles of academic freedom. 
3.2 The board seeks to enlist a faculty whose members subscribe to high standards of 
professional conduct, who are specialists in the various subject matter areas, and 
who are fair and constructive in presenting ideas and issues to the students. 
3.3 The Board desires to foster in students a respect for differing points of view, 
supports the faculty's freedom to present controversial issues in the classroom, 
and declares its intention to defend this freedom against attacks by those who may 
be alarmed by free discussion. 
3.4 The Board further declares that it is a responsibility of the college instructor to 
present and encourage discussion of controversial material where appropriate to 
the class subject matter. Such material would include not only the American 
heritage but other philosophies and forms of government as well, so they may be 
compared. The student should be taught to discriminate between fact and fiction, 
and to identify propaganda. 

INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 
 
Controversial Issues P-7142 
Curriculum 2 of 2 
 
3.5 The colleges may invite outside speakers representing diverse points of view; in 
return they must reserve the right to impose specific conditions insuring that 
opportunity be provided to challenge these views. 
3.5.1 Speakers shall be governed by the regulations of the colleges as to time, 
place and manner of public presentations. 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 6/30/65 
Policy Revised: 1/28/81; 4/21/82 
Policy Reviewed:  
Adm. Regulation: R-7142