INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 
 
Distance Education   P-7145 
Curriculum 1 of 3 
 
1.0  Intent 
1.1 Recognizing that faculty make use of the growing range of modalities for the 
delivery of instructional and educational programs and services, including various 
electronic means, the Los Rios Community College District Board of Trustees 
adopts this District Policy based on principles of good practice to help ensure that 
distance education is characterized by the same expectations for quality, integrity, 
and effectiveness that apply to more traditional modes of instruction. This District 
Policy reflects the federal, state, regulatory requirements and accreditation 
standards regarding distance education. 
2.0  Definitions 
2.1 “Distance education” means instruction in which the instructor and student are 
separated by distance and interact through the assistance of communication 
technology, and may take one of the following forms, which collectively are 
referred to as “distance education courses”: 
2.1.1 Online courses. Online courses offer all instruction online and do not 
require regularly scheduled instruction time on campus. Students in online 
courses may be required to attend face-to-face orientations or test 
proctoring; or 
2.1.2 Hybrid courses. Hybrid courses are defined as any course that has some 
face-to-face instruction time replaced by some online instruction time. 
2.1.3 Interactive Television. Interactive television courses are those that 
originate at a College and are simultaneously available at several remote 
locations, allowing students at all sites to interact with the instructor (and 
one another) in real time. These courses are streamed live, recorded and 
archived on a password protected server. Students can access these 
recordings on demand via the Internet to review specific content 
throughout the semester. 
3.0  General 
3.1 All distance education and all distance education courses are subject to the 
general requirements of the District Policies and Administrative Regulations as 
well as the requirements of federal law, California Law, the Education Code, Title 
5, and all applicable accreditation standards.  
These requirements include, but are not limited to, the laws, regulations and 
standards concerning curriculum development and approval, admission and 
entrance requirements, fees, attendance, academic calendar, text books, 
articulation, transfer of credit, grievance procedures, student rights and 
responsibilities, discrimination complaint processes, Americans with Disabilities 
Act (42 U.S.C., § 12100 et seq) access standards, course content, class size, 
student record and privacy protections, catalog rights, grading practices and 

INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 
 
Distance Education   P-7145 
Curriculum 2 of 3 
 
standards, course repetition, academic progress and probation, student conduct 
rules and due process, student and academic support services, financial aid, and 
computer use policies and other applicable laws, rules and regulations. The 
Colleges control the development, implementation, and evaluation of all courses 
and programs offered in the Colleges’ names. 
3.2 Students who reside outside of the state of California shall not be allowed to be 
enrolled in any distance education courses unless the College or District is legally 
authorized to engage in teaching in the state in which the student is residing while 
enrolled in the distance education course. 
3.3 Instruction provided as distance education shall provide equal educational 
opportunity as required by District Policies and is subject to the requirements that 
may be imposed by the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C., § 12100 et 
seq) and section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C., § 
794d). (Title 5, § 55200) 
3.4 Course curriculum quality and approval processes are matters of an academic and 
professional nature and shall be developed through the Academic Senates and 
ultimately approved by the Board of Trustees. Distance education courses shall 
meet the same standards as are applied to face-to-face courses. Determinations 
and judgments about the quality of distance education shall be made with the full 
involvement of faculty. (Title 5, §§ 55002, 55202) 
3.5 Any portion of a course conducted through distance education shall include 
regular substantive and effective faculty initiated contact with students. The 
determination of regular substantive and effective contact is an academic and 
professional matter. (34 C.F.R. § 602.3; Title 5, § 55204, subd. (a)) 
3.6 Any portion of a course provided through distance education shall be conducted 
consistently with guidelines issued by the State Chancellor. (Title 5, § 55204, 
subd. (b)) 
3.7 Any portion of the instruction in a proposed or existing course that is designed to 
be provided through distance education in lieu of face-to-face interaction between 
instructor and student shall be separately reviewed and approved according to the 
District’s adopted course approval procedures. (Title 5, § 55206) 
3.8 Instructors of distance education courses shall be selected by the same procedures 
used to determine all instructional assignments. Distance education faculty shall 
possess the appropriate state minimum qualifications for the discipline in which 
they teach. (Title 5, § 55208(a)) 
3.9 The Colleges shall implement processes through which the Colleges establish that 
the student who registers in a course or program is the same student who 
participates in and completes the course or program and receives the academic 
credit. (34 C.F.R., § 602.17 (g))  

INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 
 
Distance Education   P-7145 
Curriculum 3 of 3 
 
3.10 The Colleges shall implement processes through which the Colleges establish that 
the student who registers in a distance education course has equivalent access to 
online student and academic support services. 
3.11 Where fifty percent (50%) or more of courses for a degree or certificate program 
are offered by distance education, the Colleges shall obtain accrediting 
commission approval of the substantive change prior to offering the program 
through distance education. 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 1/14/15 
Policy Revised:  
Policy Reviewed:  
Adm. Regulation: R-7145