Drug and Alcohol-Free Workplace and College Premises 
APPENDIX A 
 P-2443, P-5621, P-6821, and P-9154 1 of 6 
 
 
I. Pursuant to the Drug and Alcohol-Free Workplace and College Premises Policies, the 
following additional information is provided to Los Rios Community College District 
faculty, staff, and students about the use of alcohol and illegal drugs: 
Disciplinary Sanctions 
Violation of the Drug and Alcohol-Free Workplace and College Premises Policies shall result 
in the prompt imposition of sanctions. For faculty, administrators, or staff, these sanctions 
depend on the nature and severity of the offense and may range from a warning, a counseling 
memorandum, a written reprimand, required satisfactory participation in counseling or 
rehabilitation programs, probation, paid or unpaid suspension, termination of employment, 
and/or referral to proper law enforcement authorities for prosecution. For students, these 
sanctions also depend on the nature and severity of the offense and may range from a 
warning, a counseling memorandum, a written reprimand, required satisfactory participation 
in counseling or rehabilitation programs, probation, suspension, expulsion from the College, 
and/or referral to proper law enforcement authorities for prosecution. Any sanctions taken 
against faculty, administrators, or staff will be carried out in accordance with the applicable 
Collective Bargaining Agreement, the District’s Policies and Regulations, and the Education 
Code. Any sanctions taken against students will be carried out in accordance with the 
District’s Policies and Regulations and the Education Code. 
Education Counseling and Rehabilitation Programs 
The Employee Assistance Program (EAP) offers assessment, short-term counseling, and 
referral services for faculty, staff, and their dependents. In addition, the program is intended 
to provide crisis intervention, as well as training or consultation services for administrators 
and supervisors who need to know how to identify or make referrals for individuals whose 
substance abuse problems are affecting work performance and unit morale. Contact 
Employee Benefits for information about the available resources. Other facilities in the 
Sacramento Region offer similar counseling and treatment services for faculty, staff, and 
students as noted in Section II of this appendix. 
Health Risks and Legal Sanctions 
Alcohol and substance abuse can create serious health risks and result in misdemeanor or 
felony convictions and the imposition of a range of criminal penalties, including large fines 
and imprisonment. Please refer to Sections III and IV of this appendix for a more detailed 
description of these health risks, laws, and penalties. 
II. Education Counseling, and Rehabilitation Programs 
Numerous agencies and organizations provide counseling and rehabilitation programs for the 
use of drugs and alcohol. Contact Employee Benefits for additional resources. 
Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) 
AA provides free meetings. For meeting times and locations, visit their website at 
www.aasacramento.org or call their 24-hour hotline in Sacramento at (916) 454-1100. 

Drug and Alcohol-Free Workplace and College Premises 
APPENDIX A 
 P-2443, P-5621, P-6821, and P-9154 2 of 6 
 
 
Al-Anon 
This group is for friends or family members of someone who struggles with alcoholism. For 
meeting times and locations, visit their website at http://www.ncwsa.org. 
Narcotics Anonymous 
For information, visit their website at http://sacramentona.org/ or call their 24-hour hotline in 
Sacramento at (800) 600-4673. 
New Dawn Chemical Dependency Recovery Center 
New Dawn’s chemical dependency programs are dedicated to helping individuals and their 
families find independence from chemical and/or alcohol dependency. They have specific 
programs dedicated to teens and adults with facilities located in areas around Sacramento, 
including Auburn, Sacramento, and Rancho Cordova. They offer a free intake/assessment. 
For more information, please call their toll-free number at (866) 969-4300 or visit their 
website at http://www.newdawnrecovery.com/chemical-dependency/. 
Strategies for Change 
Strategies for Change offers individual and family treatment of substance abuse including 
day treatment and intensive outpatient, outpatient, and youth substance abuse programs. Most 
insurance plans and Medi-Cal accepted. Private pay options are also available. There are two 
locations in Sacramento. For more information, please call (916) 473-5764 (North 
Sacramento) or (916) 395-3552 (South Sacramento), or visit their website at 
http://strategies4change.org. 
Sacramento County Alcohol and Drug Services 
This is part of the Division of Sacramento County Health and Human Services. They offer 
prevention, treatment, and recovery services for alcohol and drug abuse. Clients must attend 
a preliminary assessment prior to receiving services. For more information visit their website 
at http://www.dhhs.saccounty.net/BHS/Pages/Alcohol-Drug-Services/Alcohol-and-Drug-
Services.aspx. 
Yolo County Alcohol and Other Drug Services 
They offer court-mandated treatment services in addition to services for pregnant and 
parenting women and a six-month chemical dependency program. For more information visit 
their website at http://www.yolocounty.org/health-human-services/alcohol-drug-and-mental-
health-. 
WellSpace (formerly The Effort) 
WellSpace offers outpatient individual and group counseling in Sacramento. There is a 
sliding scale fee based on income. For more information, visit their website at 
http://www.wellspacehealth.org/ or call (916) 737-5555. 

Drug and Alcohol-Free Workplace and College Premises 
APPENDIX A 
 P-2443, P-5621, P-6821, and P-9154 3 of 6 
 
 
III. Health Risks 
Substance abuse and drug dependency carry significant health risks. 
Alcohol 
Alcoholism is a disorder that has profound psychological, biological, and societal effects. It 
is usually characterized by one of three different patterns: 
1. Regular daily intoxication; 
2. Drinking large amounts of alcohol at specific times; 
3. Periods of sobriety interspersed with periods of heavy daily drinking. 
The disorder is usually progressive, and physical dependence can develop; if this happens, 
serious, sometimes life threatening symptoms can develop when alcohol is withdrawn. Short 
term effects of alcohol use can include depression, gastritis, liver disease, automobile 
accidents, and domestic violence. Chronic alcohol abuse can produce irreversible health 
changes, including dementia, sexual impotence, cirrhosis of the liver, and heart disease. 
Death can occur either as a complication of one of these chronic problems, or acutely, 
secondary to alcohol intoxication by poisoning or to aspiration of vomitus, or as the result of 
any automobile accident while driving intoxicated. 
Marijuana (Cannabis) 
Marijuana is the most commonly used illegal drug in the United States. Though physiological 
consequences do depend on frequency, duration, and quantity of use, marijuana use has been 
linked to impairment of short term memory, concentration, judgment, perception, and fine 
motor skills. Thus the use of this drug increases the risk of machinery or motor vehicle 
accident and injury for four to six hours after ingestion. Impairment of memory may last for 
three to six months, even if use of the drug is discontinued completely. The active chemical 
in marijuana (THC) remains stored in body fat cells long after ingestion. Marijuana use is 
associated with chronic anxiety, depression, and paranoid feelings. It can exacerbate or 
increase significantly underlying emotional problems. Frequent and/or ongoing use by 
children and adolescents may have long term developmental consequences resulting in lack 
of motivation, apathy, and difficulty managing current stresses and responsibilities, as well as 
making appropriate plans for the future. Pregnant women who use marijuana may be at a 
higher risk for giving birth to children with developmental or birth defects. 
Hallucinogens 
This category includes drugs such as lysergic, acid diethylamine (LSD, also known as 
“acid”), mescaline, and peyote. These drugs cause delusions, hallucinations, and impaired 
perception of time and space. Phencyclidine (PCP or “angel dust”) and amphetamine variants 
known as “ecstasy” are included in this category, though they rarely cause hallucinations in 
the true sense. 

Drug and Alcohol-Free Workplace and College Premises 
APPENDIX A 
 P-2443, P-5621, P-6821, and P-9154 4 of 6 
 
 
They are, however, potent drugs that have mind-altering effects and impair perception and 
cognition. Hallucinogens can produce a “bad trip” with anxiety, agitation, hallucinations, and 
paranoia leading to impulsive behavior. After a “bad trip,” the person can be subject to 
“flashbacks,” which are recurrences of the experiences of the “bad trip” without taking any 
more of the drug. Psychosis and impaired thinking may result after long-term use. 
Cocaine 
The use of cocaine, an illegal stimulant drug, has risen dramatically in the United States. 
Other names for this drug are code, C., lady, and snow. Cocaine is a white powder that is 
snorted, injected into veins, or smoked freebase or as “crack.” Crack is a crystalline form of 
cocaine that is also known as “rock,” from its small, white, rock-like appearance. (“Speed 
balls” are cocaine mixed with heroin, which is a particularly dangerous combination.) Crack 
produces the most intense cocaine high; addiction can occur after using it only once or twice. 
Cocaine highs are characterized by feelings of extreme happiness and a sense of limitless 
power and energy. However, the physical effects include high blood pressure and heart 
palpitations. A cocaine “crash” follows the high and includes symptoms of depression, 
dullness, great irritability, and paranoia. Serious medical complications occur with cocaine 
use, such as heart attacks (even in young people), seizures, and strokes due to high blood 
pressure. The psychological effects of cocaine use include violence, paranoia, and personality 
changes as well as symptoms such as depression, anxiety, and confusion. Pregnant women 
using cocaine have increased risk of miscarriages and still-births. Newborns addicted to 
cocaine are irritable, unresponsive, prone to have malformed kidneys and genitals, and prone 
to have heart attacks and strokes. Addiction to cocaine controls aspects of the user’s life, 
impinges on the lives of those closest to the user, and occurs in people of all ages, classes, 
and educational levels. 
Amphetamines and Other Stimulants 
In addition to cocaine, a number of other drugs stimulate the nervous system and are very 
addictive. Most of them belong to the amphetamine family of drugs. Dexedrine (present in 
“diet” pills) may at times be prescribed by a physician, but its use as a legitimate medication 
is now infrequent. Street drugs of the amphetamine group include “ecstasy” and “ice.” Ice is 
a smokable amphetamine compound that is very potent, and the effects are long-lasting and 
devastating. The health risks of these and other stimulants are similar to those of cocaine use. 
Narcotics, Including Heroin 
Various medications are taken to relieve pain. Most non-prescription pain relievers (such as 
aspirin, Tylenol, Motrin, and Nuprin) are not considered addictive. However, there is a class 
of stronger pain relievers, available by prescription only, which are referred to as narcotics 
and most of which are opiates. Examples of these drugs include morphine, codeine, Tylenol 
No.3, Darvon, Darvocet, Percocet, Percodan, Demerol, and certain prescription cough 
medicines. These drugs differ from non-prescription pain relievers in their potential for abuse 
and dependence. With close medical supervision, these drugs may be safely used in specific 
medical circumstances for a limited time. However, addiction may occur and the person may 
not want to stop the drug even when the pain has stopped. Tolerance to the drug is shown by 

Drug and Alcohol-Free Workplace and College Premises 
APPENDIX A 
 P-2443, P-5621, P-6821, and P-9154 5 of 6 
 
 
an increase in the amount of drug necessary to relieve pain. This becomes progressive and 
leads to the craving or need for larger and larger doses, without which the person becomes 
extremely uncomfortable and physically ill. The time may come when the person “needs” 
such a large dose of the drug that it is poisonous or lethal. Under these circumstances, coma, 
suffocation, and death may ensue. The malignant course of this problem is similar to that of 
addiction to heroin.  
Although heroin is not available by prescription, it is a narcotic that belongs to the same 
chemical family as the above drugs. The use of heroin is mainly by injection into a vein, 
which carries the additional medical dangers of contracting AIDS and hepatitis from unclean 
needles and syringes. 
Sedatives and Tranquilizers 
The barbiturates and the benzodiazepines are two of the most commonly used classes of 
sedatives. The barbiturates (such Phenobarbital, Seconal, and Amytal) are highly addictive 
and can be fatal if taken in excess. Although they still have medical uses, they have largely 
been replaced by the benzodiazepines, used for relief of anxiety and to promote sleep. The 
benzodiazepines include such drugs as Valium, Librium, Ativan, Xanax, Dalmane, Halcion, 
and Restoril. 
While safe and effective at moderate doses for short periods of time (weeks), all the 
benzodiazepines have a potential for physical and psychological dependence if used at higher 
doses for longer periods of time. Frequently the benzodiazepines are abused by adults who 
become dependent on them because of their anti-anxiety effects. Other tranquilizers which 
may be abused include methaqualone (Quaaludes), Doriden, and Equanil. Intoxication may 
result from benzodiazepine use and resembles alcoholic drunkenness. Drowsiness, slurred 
speech, unsteady gait, and lack of coordination are common signs. The effects of the 
benzodiazepines (and the barbiturates and other sedatives) add to those of alcohol; taken 
together, they can lead to coma and even death. Withdrawal from benzodiazepines resembles 
alcohol withdrawal and is most apparent if the drugs are stopped abruptly. Withdrawal takes 
place within hours to days of stopping the drug. Once a person is addicted to 
benzodiazepines, a physician should supervise the plan for gradually stopping them, to 
minimize the serious effects of withdrawal. 
IV. Legal Sanctions 
Federal law and California law prohibit the solicitation, procurement, sale or manufacture of 
narcotics or controlled substances except as expressly permitted by law. Applicable legal 
sanctions under local, California, and Federal law for the unlawful distribution of alcohol and 
illicit drugs range from probation, diversion, and imprisonment in the county jail for less than 
one year, to imprisonment in Federal or State Prison.  
The use of alcohol beverages must be in compliance with California law and is strictly 
limited to persons 21 years of age or older and is further limited to authorized events when 
consumed at the Colleges. The possession, transportation, and/or consumption of alcohol by 
individuals less than 21 years of age is strictly prohibited. Persons under 21 convicted of 
purchasing or consuming alcohol or possessing it in public face fines, license suspensions 

Drug and Alcohol-Free Workplace and College Premises 
APPENDIX A 
 P-2443, P-5621, P-6821, and P-9154 6 of 6 
 
 
and community service. A police officer can take the license from any driver suspected of 
driving under the influence of alcohol and drugs who refuses to take a blood alcohol test. 
Persons who possess alcohol at a Los Rios Community College when not authorized are also 
subject to fines and community service. 
Misdemeanor convictions for campus drug use can result in a fine and incarceration of up to 
a year in a county jail. Relatively few drug-related infractions may be considered 
misdemeanor offenses, however. Most drug use convictions are defined as felony acts. 
Felony convictions for campus drug use can result in a substantial fine and a lengthy jail 
sentence in state or federal prison. Convictions for manufacture, possession for sale, or use of 
substances such as the following examples are felony offenses: amphetamines (whites, 
uppers), barbiturates, codeine, cocaine/crack, heroin, LSD, methamphetamines (crank, 
crystal), marijuana, PCP, and Quaaludes. 
Federal law specifies how and when the District will withhold financial aid from students 
convicted of drug violations. 
  LRCCD 
Last Update: 7/10/15