ORGANIZATIONAL PROCEDURES 
 
Student Trustee   P-3122 
Election Procedures 1 of 4 
 
1.0  Student Trustee (Ed. Code, § 72023.5) 
1.1 In accordance with the Education Code, the Los Rios Community College District 
Board of Trustees shall include within its membership, in addition to the number of 
members otherwise prescribed, a non-voting student as Student Trustee. 
1.2 The term of the Student Trustee shall be one (1) year commencing on June 1 of each 
year. 
2.0  Qualifications for Student Trustee (Ed. Code, § 72023.5) 
2.1 A Student Trustee shall be required at the time he or she submits his or her petition 
for nomination and throughout the term of his or her appointment to: 
2.1.1 Be a California resident;  
2.1.2 Be enrolled in and maintain at least five (5) semester units at one or more 
of the Colleges of the Los Rios Community College District;  
2.1.3 Be a student in good standing and not be on academic probation.  
2.2 During his or her lifetime, no student shall serve more than a single term as the 
Student Trustee. 
2.3 The position of Student Trustee shall not be used for Cooperative Work Experience 
Education.  
3.0  Election 
3.1 A District-wide student election shall be held to select the Student Trustee. 
3.2 It is the intent of the Board of Trustees that the election for the Student Trustee shall 
be held in accordance with all of the following principles:  
3.2.1 The election shall be a learning experience about representative 
democracy, free and fair elections and voting.  
3.2.2 The election shall be fundamentally fair.  
3.2.3 The election shall uniformly enfranchise eligible voters with elections 
open to students.  
3.2.4 The election shall be based on the universal suffrage principle of “one 
person – one vote.” 
3.2.5 The election shall preserve the confidentiality of the ballot.  
3.2.6 The election process shall provide for the adequate distribution and 
display of comprehensive campaign information to all eligible voters. 

ORGANIZATIONAL PROCEDURES 
 
Student Trustee   P-3122 
Election Procedures 2 of 4 
 
3.3 This election will be run and paid for by the student associations at each College and 
coordinated by the Student Advisory Committee and the Vice President of Student 
Services, or designee, at each campus. The elections shall be subject to the direction 
and supervision of the Vice Chancellor of Education and Technology, or designee.  
3.4 The Student Trustee shall be elected at large by plurality vote of the voting students 
in all Colleges of the District. 
3.5 The Board of Trustees retains oversight over the Student Trustee election and may 
direct the Chancellor, or designee, to investigate any election irregularities. In the 
event the Chancellor or designee concludes there was a material irregularity in the 
election, the Chancellor or designee may: 
3.3.1 Validate the election;  
3.3.2 Invalidate the election and require a re-election;  
3.3.3 Validate the election by excluding votes from a polling place where the 
irregularity occurred; or 
3.3.4 Make any other determination that fairness requires. 
4.0  Recall 
4.1 A majority of Student Body Association Senates (at least 3 out of 4) that have each 
recorded a three-quarter (3/4) majority vote within their respective bodies shall be 
required to enact a recall election for the position of Student Trustee. 
4.2 Recall shall be initiated for just cause only, including but not limited to illegal or 
unethical behavior while acting as a representative of the students of the Los Rios 
Community College District; being unresponsive, or acting contrary to the interests 
and welfare of the students of the District; disregarding the expressed intentions of 
the Student Body Association and each of its components and the District Student 
Advisory Committee; or not maintaining the qualifications of the Student Trustee. 
4.3 The recall election shall begin no later than fourteen (14) days after the Vice 
Chancellor of Education and Technology declares the requirements to enact the 
recall have been fulfilled and shall comply with the requirements of Section 3.0 
above. 
5.0  Student Trustee Vacancy 
5.1 Definition of Vacancy 
5.1.1 If no student trustee has been elected as of May 31 of each year, the 
Student Trustee seat shall become vacant on June 1 of that year. 
5.1.2 If a Student Trustee has two (2) consecutive unexcused absences from 
Board meetings, the Student Trustee seat shall become vacant. Absences 
may be excused using the same procedure applicable to other trustees. 

ORGANIZATIONAL PROCEDURES 
 
Student Trustee   P-3122 
Election Procedures 3 of 4 
 
5.1.3 In the event that a Student Trustee is unable to complete his/her term, the 
Student Trustee seat shall become vacant. 
5.1.4 If the Student Trustee fails to meet the qualifications to hold office at any 
time, the Student Trustee seat shall immediately become vacant. 
5.1.5 If the Student Trustee is recalled, the Student Trustee seat shall become 
vacant. 
5.2 Procedures for Filling Vacancies 
5.2.1 If the Student Advisory Committee is required to select the Student 
Trustee in the event of a vacancy, the Student Advisory Committee shall 
elect the new Student Trustee according to the following procedures: 
5.2.2 Voting members of the Student Advisory Committee for this purpose shall 
consist of the College student association Student Senate presidents, or 
designees. In the event that a voting member of the Student Advisory 
Committee is also a candidate for Student Trustee, the College’s 
respective student association Student Senate officers shall select a 
designee to replace this individual for the purposes of the Student Trustee 
election. 
5.2.3 In the event of an election that has been invalidated, the pool of qualified 
and vetted candidates from which the Student Advisory Committee may 
elect the Student Trustee shall be those candidates who qualified for the 
Student Trustee election and appeared in the ballot, excluding any 
subsequently disqualified candidate.  
5.2.4 In all cases not concerning invalidated elections, the pool of qualified and 
vetted candidates from which the Student Advisory Committee may elect 
the Student Trustee shall be the candidates that (a) meet the qualifications 
for Student Trustee described in Policy P-3122, Section 2.1; and (b) have 
filed a valid, recent nominating petition with either (i) at least fifty (50) 
signatures of currently enrolled Los Rios students, or (ii) a resolution 
endorsing the candidate by a College’s student association Student Senate.  
Each College student association Student Senate may endorse only a 
single candidate.  A petition will be considered recent if it has been filed 
within six (6) months of the announced election date. 
5.2.5 The Student Advisory Committee in collaboration with the Vice 
Chancellor of Education and Technology, or designee, shall select a 
student trustee vacancy election date between two and three weeks after a 
declared vacancy. 
5.2.6 Upon the declaration of a vacancy, a request for candidates, an 
explanation of the qualifications and vetting process, and the date of the 
Student Trustee vacancy election will be widely distributed to all Los Rios 
students.  Petitions shall be available at each campus at the Student 
Activities Office immediately upon the announcement of a vacancy. 

ORGANIZATIONAL PROCEDURES 
 
Student Trustee   P-3122 
Election Procedures 4 of 4 
 
5.2.7 On the day of the election, each qualified and vetted candidate shall be 
given an opportunity to present their qualifications to the Student 
Advisory Committee.  The Student Advisory Committee shall have the 
right to fix such time limits on presentations as it deems appropriate. 
5.2.8 Voting shall be accomplished by a series of ballots during a meeting open 
to the public.  
5.2.9 In the first ballot, each Student Advisory Committee member shall vote 
for a single candidate. If a candidate secures a majority of the votes in this 
initial ballot, that candidate shall be selected as the Student Trustee. 
5.2.10 If no candidate receives a majority of the votes after the first ballot, then 
any candidate who received no votes shall be excluded from further 
consideration and a second ballot shall be cast in accordance with section 
5.2.9.  
5.2.11 If no candidate receives a majority after the second ballot, then preference 
voting shall be used. In this case, each voting Student Advisory 
Committee member shall rank each of the remaining candidates on his or 
her ballot. When counted, the top candidate on each ballot receives four 
votes, the second candidate receives three votes, the third candidate 
receives two votes, and the fourth candidate receives one vote. The votes 
are then totaled and the candidate with the highest weighted ranking (i.e. 
the most total votes) shall be selected as the Student Trustee.  
5.2.12 In the event of a tie after the preference vote, the Student Trustee shall be 
selected as the Student Trustee by lot from the candidates involved in the 
tie. 
6.0  Regulations 
6.1 The Chancellor shall develop Administrative Regulations to implement this policy.  
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 3/29/78 
Policy Revised: 1/14/81; 1/28/81; 2/17/82; 9/5/90; 3/6/91; 9/18/91; 10/4/95; 6/4/97; 8/21/02; 
11/18/09; 12/14/11; 12/11/13 
Policy Reviewed: 12/11/13 
Adm. Regulation: R-3122