DISTRICT ADMINISTRATION 
 
Administrative   P-4111 
Chancellor Authority 1 of 2 
 
1.0  Authority (Ed. Code, § 70902) 
1.1 The Chancellor shall serve as the chief executive officer for the Los Rios Community 
College District Board of Trustees. The administration of the Los Rios Community 
College District in all its aspects shall be delegated to the Chancellor who shall carry 
out the administrative responsibilities and functions in accordance with the District 
Policies adopted by the Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees also delegates to 
the Chancellor the execution of all decisions made by the Board of Trustees 
concerning the internal operation of the District. In the unlikely event the Chancellor 
resigns without notice, becomes incapacitated, or is unable to discharge the powers 
and duties of the office, the Deputy Chancellor shall act in the place of the 
Chancellor until an Interim Chancellor is appointed by the Board of Trustees. The 
remaining order of succession is the Vice Chancellor of Finance and Administration 
and the Vice Chancellor of Education and Technology. Where the Deputy 
Chancellor is the chief educational Vice Chancellor of the District, the Deputy 
Chancellor has all of the rights and responsibilities of the Vice Chancellor of the 
Education and Technology under the District Policies and Administrative 
Regulations. Where the Deputy Chancellor is the chief financial Vice Chancellor of 
the District, the Deputy Chancellor has all of the rights and responsibilities of the 
Vice Chancellor of Finance and Administration under the District Policies and 
Administrative Regulations.   
1.2 The Board of Trustees is responsible for the recruitment and selection of the 
Chancellor. The Board of Trustees or designee shall establish the qualifications for 
the position and the timeline for the search. The Board of Trustees, in its discretion, 
shall implement the appropriate recruitment method and shall comply with all 
relevant provisions of the Education Code and Title 5 of the California Code of 
Regulations.  
In this hiring process, the Board of Trustees shall solicit input on the recruitment and 
hiring process from representatives of the District’s certificated, classified, 
managerial, confidential and student constituencies.  
1.3 The Chancellor may delegate any powers and duties entrusted by the Board of 
Trustees, including the administration of the Colleges, but the Chancellor shall be 
specifically responsible to the Board of Trustees for the execution of such delegated 
powers and duties. 
1.4 The President of a College in the District serves as the chief administrator of the 
College and is responsible for the overall supervision of the operation of the College 
in conformity with the directives and duties as defined by the Chancellor and 
consistent with the District Policies of the Board of Trustees. The Chancellor 
delegates full responsibility and authority to the College Presidents to implement and 
administer delegated District Policies without interference and holds College 
Presidents accountable for the operation of the College. 
1.5 Whenever a power is granted to, or a duty is imposed upon, any District employee by 
District Policy or Administrative Regulation, the power may be exercised or the duty 

DISTRICT ADMINISTRATION 
 
Administrative   P-4111 
Chancellor Authority 2 of 2 
 
may be performed by a person authorized by the employee, unless a District Policy 
or Administrative Regulation specifically provides otherwise. 
1.6 The further delegation of functions to lower-level management positions is 
accomplished by job descriptions, subject to review by the Board of Trustees, 
delineating assigned duties, responsibilities and accountability. 
1.6.1 The duties and responsibilities thus assigned are outlined as a guide to 
incumbents in these positions and do not, in any way, limit the 
accountability, responsibility or basic authority of the Chancellor for the 
administration of any part of the District’s function. 
2.0  Los Rios Community College District Officers 
2.1 The College Presidents, the Deputy Chancellor, the Vice Chancellors, the General 
Counsel, and the Associate Vice Chancellors shall be described as District Officers. 
3.0  Table of Organization 
3.1 The Chancellor shall develop an organization chart showing channels of 
communication, responsibility and accountability. 
4.0  Severability Clause 
4.1 If any provision of the District’s Policies and Administrative Regulations or the 
application thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, such invalidity 
shall not affect other provisions or applications of District Policies and 
Administrative Regulations which can be given effect without the invalid provision 
or application, and to this end the provisions of District Policies and Administrative 
Regulations are severable. In lieu thereof there shall be added a provision as similar 
in terms to such illegal, invalid and unenforceable provision as may be possible and 
be legal, valid and enforceable. 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 11/3/76 
Policy Revised: 1/14/81; 2/10/82; 9/19/90; 1/10/96; 12/5/97; 1/15/03; 12/13/06; 5/14/08; 
12/15/10; 11/14/12; 4/13/16; 12/14/16 
Policy Reviewed: 12/14/16 
Adm. Regulation: R-4111