ACADEMIC STANDARDS 
 
Awarding Honorary Degrees   P-7244 
Graduation Requirements 1 of 3 
 
1.0 Purpose 
1.1 The Los Rios Community College District Board of Trustees honors persons who 
exemplify its ideals and traditions through honorary degrees. 
1.2 The Board of Trustees recognizes that honorary degrees may be awarded by the 
Colleges of the Los Rios Community College District for four purposes: 
1.2.1 To recognize excellence and extraordinary personal or professional 
achievement in areas that embody the Colleges’ and District’s mission, 
vision, and values. 
1.2.2 To honor outstanding or meritorious public service to the District, its 
Colleges, and the wider society. 
1.2.3 To recognize persons who serve as examples for the College’s student 
body. 
1.2.4 To honor academic excellence in the individual’s field of endeavor. 
1.3 The Board is committed to award honorary degrees to recipients who reflect the 
diversity of interests, backgrounds, and concerns reflected in the Colleges, and the 
community served by the Colleges and the District. 
2.0 Types of Degrees Awarded 
2.1 Honorary degrees shall be awarded as an Associate in Arts or Associate in 
Science in a particular discipline and be issued in the name of one the four 
Colleges of the District. 
3.0 Procedure for Recommendation and Approval of Board of Trustees 
3.1 Recommendations originating from any of the College constituencies shall be 
submitted to the College President, who shall establish a Committee on Honorary 
Degrees to review recommendations. While the number of nominations is not 
limited, except under unusual circumstances, the Committee on Honorary 
Degrees shall select no more than two nominees per college per year to be 
forwarded to the Chancellor.   
3.2 There shall be a Committee on Honorary Degrees at each College to review the 
nominees from that College. The Committee on Honorary Degrees shall be 
chaired by the nominating College Vice President of Instruction and include the 
following members: 
3.1.1 The College Academic Senate President; 
3.1.2 The Chair of the Department(s) from which the degrees will be issued; 

ACADEMIC STANDARDS 
 
Awarding Honorary Degrees   P-7244 
Graduation Requirements 2 of 3 
 
3.1.3 The Classified Senate President; and 
3.1.4 The President of the College Student Body Senate. 
3.3 The Committee on Honorary Degrees shall review the nominations and make a 
recommendation to the College President. The Committee shall also assist in 
compiling material in support of the nominations forwarded to the President. 
3.4 The Chancellor shall forward nominations to the Board for its review and 
approval. 
3.5 Honorary Degrees are typically awarded at College Commencement ceremonies 
and conferred by the Trustee(s) present. The Chancellor, however, may approve 
the award of a degree outside of a commencement ceremony under special 
circumstances and with the approval of the Board. 
3.6 The Board of Trustees may, in its discretion, award an honorary degree on its own 
initiative. 
4.0 Criteria 
4.1 The Criteria for awarding of honorary degrees is as follows: 
4.1.1 Honorary degrees may be awarded to recognize achievements in the 
advancement of knowledge, the arts, or the professions.   
4.1.2 Honorary Degrees may be awarded to recognize outstanding service, 
achievement, and the commitment to the common good. 
4.1.3 Honorary degrees may be awarded posthumously for those exceptional 
students who had completed a substantial portion of their degree program. 
4.1.4 Nominees must have demonstrated intellectual and humane values that are 
consistent with the aims of higher education, the College, the District, and 
with the highest ideals of the person’s chosen fields. 
4.1.5 Service or benefit to the College or District do not in themselves justify 
the awarding of an honorary degree. Nothing in these criteria, however, 
shall preclude nominees who are benefactors of the Colleges or District. 
4.1.6 Honorary degrees may be awarded by the Board of Trustees based on 
other criteria as it deems appropriate in its discretion. 
5.0 Prohibited Degrees 
5.1 Honorary degrees shall not be awarded to: 
5.1.1 Incumbent members of the Board; 

ACADEMIC STANDARDS 
 
Awarding Honorary Degrees   P-7244 
Graduation Requirements 3 of 3 
 
5.1.2 The existing Chancellor of the District; 
5.1.3 The incumbent Presidents of the Colleges; 
5.1.4 A person who has already been awarded a degree by that particular 
College; 
5.1.5 Any incumbent elected officials.  
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 4/8/15 
Policy Revised:  
Policy Reviewed:  
Adm. Regulation: None