ORGANIZATIONAL PROCEDURES 
 
Legislative Matters P-3115 
Duties and Responsibilities 1 of 2 
 
1.0  Intent 
1.1 It is the intent of the Los Rios Community College District Board of 
Trustees that the Los Rios Community College District play an active and 
central role in influencing legislation that will have a significant impact on 
the District, its students and its staff. 
1.2 The Board of Trustees shall adopt and annually review a Statement of 
Legislative Principles that shall provide the basic parameters to guide the 
Board of Trustees and the Chancellor in taking positions on matters pending 
before the Legislature, the Governor, the Congress, and the President. 
1.3 The Board of Trustees delegates to the Chancellor the responsibility to lead 
the District governmental relations program in alignment with the Board of 
Trustees’ Statement of Legislative Principles. 
1.4 The Chancellor, and staff under the Chancellor's direction, shall have 
discretion in determining how best to influence such legislation. 
2.0  Implementation 
2.1 The Board of Trustees may adopt official positions on specific legislative 
issues only when the outcome will have a significant impact on the 
District. 
2.2 The Chancellor, in carrying out the Board of Trustees’ intent, shall operate 
under the following general parameters: 
2.2.1 The Chancellor shall adopt positions consistent with the 
Board of Trustees’ Statement of Legislative Principles and 
shall generally adopt positions consistent with the 
legislative programs and recommendations of the 
California Community Colleges. 
 
2.2.2 For matters outside the parameters of 2.3.1, the Chancellor 
shall seek the Board of Trustees’ input prior to adopting 
positions on major legislative issues.  Where timely action 
is required, the Chancellor shall consult with the Board 
President and take action in accordance with that 
consultation.  In such cases, the Chancellor shall also seek 
input from relevant District constituent groups.  The 
Chancellor may take a position on a legislative matter 
without prior approval when: 
 
2.2.2.1 The Chancellor determines the matter is similar to a 
prior issue on which the District has taken a 
position; or 
 

ORGANIZATIONAL PROCEDURES 
 
Legislative Matters P-3115 
Duties and Responsibilities 2 of 2 
 
2.2.2.2 Time restraints make consultation infeasible; or 
 
2.2.2.3 The legislative matter is consistent with existing 
District Policies, Regulations or procedures. 
 
2.2.3 The Chancellor shall regularly report to the Board of 
Trustees on the Chancellor’s activities in this area. 
 
2.2.4 Any position taken by the Board of Trustees, Chancellor or 
staff, under the Chancellor's direction, shall be the official 
position of the District and does not necessarily reflect the 
personal opinion of any member of the Board of Trustees, 
the Chancellor or any staff member. 
 
2.2.5 The Board of Trustees may approve any legislation 
sponsored by the District before it is formally introduced 
into legislation. 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 1/17/01 
Policy Revised: 12/15/10; 4/9/14 
Policy Reviewed: 4/9/14 
Adm. Regulation: None