BUDGET PLANNING AND ADMINISTRATION 
 
Budget Planning  P-8122 
Budget 1 of 2 
 
1.0  The Budget 
1.1 The Los Rios Community College District Chancellor is responsible for the 
development and preparation of an annual budget of all District Funds, consistent 
with existing laws and regulations. The budget shall represent estimated 
resources, and planned expenditures for the new fiscal year period. 
1.2 The budget shall include a uniform fund structure, revenue and expenditure 
classifications and other accounting procedures as prescribed by the Budget and 
Accounting Manual issued by the State Chancellor’s Office of the California 
Community Colleges and Education Code, section 70901. 
1.3 The District shall maintain a 5% (minimum) undistributed reserve or contingency 
reserve for the General Fund in accordance with fiscal  
policies/guidelines recommended by the State Chancellor’s Office. The 
percentage calculation shall be based upon total estimated general purpose 
revenues of the General Fund for the given budget year. 
2.0  Budget Calendar  
2.1 A budget calendar shall be developed each year indicating a time schedule for 
compiling various portions of the budget. The calendar shall include: 
2.1.1 Activities scheduled during the planning process of a budget year and 
estimated dates and timelines for completion; 
2.1.2 Participants involved/responsible for the activity. 
2.2 The budget calendar shall adhere to timelines established by California Code of 
Regulations, title 5, sections 58300 and following.  
2.3 A tentative budget for the succeeding fiscal year shall be adopted by the Los Rios 
Community College District Board of Trustees on or before July 1 of each year. A 
budget for a given fund may be developed with different scenarios based upon 
various revenue estimates and planned spending assumptions. The tentative 
budget approved by the Board of Trustees for the General Fund is usually the 
budget that assumes the highest level of estimated funding if varying revenue 
levels are presented; and the minimum estimated funding/revenue level for the 
General Fund is typically the “operational budget” of the District. The tentative 
budget(s) are effective July 1 of each fiscal year.  
2.4 A public hearing and final adoption of the budget will occur prior to September 
15 or as determined by Education Code requirements. The prescribed annual 
financial and budget report shall be filed with the State Chancellor’s Office on or 
before September 30 of the budget year. An informational copy may be sent to the 
County Superintendent of Schools. 

BUDGET PLANNING AND ADMINISTRATION 
 
Budget Planning  P-8122 
Budget 2 of 2 
 
2.5 Budget revisions necessary during the fiscal year shall require approval by 
majority vote of the Board of Trustees. Budget transfers from undistributed 
reserves must be approved by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the members of the Board 
of Trustees.  
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 6/16/82 
Policy Revised: 1/10/90; 5/1/91; 6/7/00; 4/15/09; 5/9/12; 1/11/17 
Policy Reviewed: 1/11/17 
Adm. Regulation: R-8122