SAFETY AND SECURITY 
 
Safety and Security (Clery Act) P-8911 
Safety and Security 1 of 4 
 
1.0 Collection and Publication of Public Safety Statistics 
1.1 Pursuant to the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus 
Crime Statistics Act (Clery Act) (20 U.S.C. section 1092, subdivision (f)), the Los 
Rios Community College District will collect statistics for reported crimes 
occurring on-campus, in off-campus buildings or property owned or controlled by 
the District, and on public property within, or immediately adjacent to and 
accessible from the Colleges (its Clery Geography).  
1.2 As required by the Clery Act, the District will publish those statistics in its 
Annual Security Report.  The Annual Security Report will also include 
information about safety and security policies implemented to protect the welfare 
of the District/College community.   
2.0 Responsibility for Collection and Publication of Public Safety 
Statistics 
2.1 The Los Rios Police Department (LRPD) is responsible for gathering and 
disclosing the required crime statistics and the preparation and dissemination of 
the Annual Security Report in accordance with the Clery Act.   
2.2 The LRPD is responsible for reporting the statistics to the Department of 
Education through the annual web-based data collection process.  
2.3 The Annual Security Report will include statistics for the previous three (3) 
years concerning reported crimes that occurred on the District’s Clery 
Geography. 
3.0 Reporting Crimes 
3.1 Students, faculty, staff, administrators and guests are encouraged to 
immediately and accurately report all crimes, emergencies, suspicious activity 
and any other public safety-related incidents to the LRPD.   
4.0 Campus Security Authorities 
4.1 Campus Security Authorities are individuals or offices with significant 
responsibility for student and campus activities.   
4.2 The District/Colleges will identify the Campus Security Authorities in the 
Annual Security Report. 
4.3 The District/Colleges will ensure that alleged crimes reported to Campus 
Security Authorities are then reported by Campus Security Authorities to LRPD 
and then disclosed in the Annual Security Report as required by the Clery Act. 

SAFETY AND SECURITY 
 
Safety and Security (Clery Act) P-8911 
Safety and Security 2 of 4 
 
5.0 Statistics for Off-Campus Crimes 
5.1 The District will make a good-faith effort to collect crime statistics for all Clery 
Act crimes committed on its Clery Geography from all law enforcement 
agencies with jurisdiction over those locations. 
6.0 Crime Log 
6.1 The District will maintain a crime log in which it will record all alleged criminal 
incidents, including non-Clery Act crimes, reported to the LRPD regardless of 
how much time has passed since the alleged incident occurred. Crimes will be 
recorded in the crime log by the date they are reported. The log will be available 
for review by the public. 
7.0 Emergency Notification and Evacuation 
7.1 The District/Colleges will immediately notify the District/College community 
(or a segment or segments of the District/College community affected) upon the 
confirmation of a significant emergency or dangerous situation involving an 
immediate threat to the health or safety of students or employees occurring on 
the Colleges or at the College centers. The manner and method for this 
notification and the persons responsible for carrying out these notification 
procedures will be described in the Annual Security Report. 
7.2 The District/Colleges will, without delay, and taking into account the safety of 
the District/College community, determine the content of the notification and 
initiate the emergency warning system, unless issuing a notification will, in the 
professional judgment of responsible authorities, compromise efforts to assist a 
victim or contain, respond to, or otherwise mitigate the emergency.  
7.3 When necessary, information about the significant emergency or dangerous 
situation may be released to the larger community at the discretion of the 
responsible authorities. 
8.0 Timely Warning 
8.1 The District/Colleges will provide timely warnings to address threats to the 
District/College community. The timely warning will be designed to give 
students, faculty, staff, and administrators a timely notification of crimes to 
heighten safety awareness, and to seek information that will lead to the arrest 
and conviction of perpetrators who commit violent crimes against persons or 
major crimes against property.  
8.2 To provide a timely warning, the District/Colleges will issue a Crime Alert 
Bulletin when a crime is reported to the LRPD or when a local police 
jurisdiction notifies the LRPD of a crime that represents a serious or continuing 
threat to the safety of the campus community.   

SAFETY AND SECURITY 
 
Safety and Security (Clery Act) P-8911 
Safety and Security 3 of 4 
 
8.3 Crime Alerts Bulletins will be distributed to the campus community using 
various mediums of communication. The LRPD and the Public Information 
Officer in coordination with College and District administrators are responsible 
for assessing the need for and the distribution of the Crime Alerts. Situations 
will be assessed on a case-by-case basis, with great weight given to the LRPD’s 
assessment of the total situation, including the best use of resources. The type of 
event or situation will be reviewed by the LRPD and the appropriate 
District/College Communications and Public Information Officer to determine 
the most effective method to distribute the crime alert information. The 
implementation of this process is described in the Annual Security Report. 
9.0 Jurisdiction and Authority of LRPD  
9.1 The LRPD has primary law enforcement jurisdiction for all criminal incidents 
occurring on District/College property. This includes incident investigation, 
follow up and resolution. The LRPD is a full-service police agency that is 
staffed seven days a week, 24 hours a day. The LRPD employs peace officers, 
campus safety officers, campus patrol officers and student patrol officers. 
9.1.1 Peace Officers: The LRPD peace officers have statewide police authority, 
full powers of arrest and are vested with law enforcement powers pursuant 
to California Penal Code Section 830.32. LRPD Peace officers enforce 
local, state and federal laws both on- and off-campus. Their police 
authority includes concurrent jurisdiction with municipal and county 
agencies on adjacent streets and in the surrounding community. 
9.1.2 College Safety and Campus Patrol Officers: College safety officers and 
campus patrol officers are employees of the District. They have authority 
to issue parking citations. They have the same powers of arrest as a private 
citizen. 
9.1.3 Student Patrol Officers: Student patrol officers are all agents of the 
District. They have the same powers of arrest as a private citizen. 
10.0 Safety and Security of the District/Colleges 
10.1 The LRPD provides 24-hour patrols of District/College buildings, property and 
parking lots. LRPD Peace Officers investigate crimes, alarms and suspicious 
incidents and persons, and provide responses to medical and fire incidents on 
the premises.  
10.2 District/College facilities and buildings are generally open to the 
District/College community, visitors and guests Monday through Friday from 7 
a.m.-11 p.m., and as certain special events dictate. Staff should lock any doors 
not in use. Custodial and LRPD staffs regularly check the security of the 
buildings. After-hours access is possible with issued keys or contact to the 
LRPD.   

SAFETY AND SECURITY 
 
Safety and Security (Clery Act) P-8911 
Safety and Security 4 of 4 
 
10.3 District/College shrubbery, trees and other vegetation are routinely trimmed and 
artificial lighting is maintained with safety issues in mind. The District/College 
community is encouraged to report unsafe conditions, safety concerns, exterior 
lighting issues or telephone malfunctions to Campus Operations, Facilities 
Management or the LRPD. 
11.0 Sexual Violence, Relationship Violence, Domestic Violence, 
Dating Violence, Sexual Assault and Stalking  
11.1 The policies required by the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act 
(VAWA) (Public Law 113-4) concerning sexual assault, domestic violence, 
dating violence and stalking are covered by District Policy P-2541, entitled 
Sexual Violence, Relationship Violence, Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, 
Sexual Assault and Stalking. 
11.2 The methods for adjudicating complaints of sexual assault, domestic violence, 
dating violence and stalking are covered under District Policies and 
Administrative Regulations entitled Discrimination and Harassment Complaint 
Procedures (P/R-2423, P/R-5172, P/R-6163, and P/R-9152); Sexual Harassment 
(P-2424, P-5173, P-6161, and P-9153); Standards of Conduct (P/R-2441); Due 
Process (P/R-2442); and Sexual Violence, Relationship Violence, Domestic 
Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault and Stalking (P-2541).  
12.0 Drug and Alcohol-Free Workplace and College Premises 
12.1 The required policies regarding alcohol and drug use are contained in the 
District Policy and Administrative Regulation entitled Drug and Alcohol-Free 
Workplace and College Premises (P-2443, R-2443, P-5621, P-6821 and P-
9154). 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 12/14/16 
Policy Revised:  
Policy Reviewed:  
Adm. Regulation: None