COUNSELING AND HEALTH SERVICES 
 
Sexual Violence, Relationship 
Violence, Domestic Violence, Dating 
Violence, Sexual Assault and 
Stalking  
P-2541 
Assaults 1 of 7 
 
1.0  Statement of Intent 
1.1 The Los Rios Community College District Board of Trustees prohibits sexual 
violence, relationship violence, domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault 
and stalking that is committed at or upon the grounds of, or upon off-campus 
grounds or facilities maintained by the Los Rios Community College District and 
its Colleges. This District Policy sets forth the District’s comprehensive plan 
concerning sexual misconduct and its educational programs and procedures to 
prevent and provide redress for sexual violence, relationship violence, domestic 
violence, dating violence, sexual assault and stalking. Those who have 
experienced this misconduct at or upon the grounds of or upon off-campus 
grounds or facilities maintained by the District/College shall receive information 
and referrals to local community treatment centers. 
2.0  Definitions 
2.1 “Complainant” is the person who alleges sexual assault occurred. 
2.2 “Respondent” is the person alleged to have committed sexual assault. 
2.3 “Sexual assault” is broader than sexual violence and includes, but is not limited 
to, rape, forced sodomy, forced oral copulation, rape by a foreign object, sexual 
battery, domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, or threat of sexual assault.  
2.4 “Relationship violence” is term that includes dating and domestic violence.  
Relationship violence is physical violence relating to a current or former romantic 
or intimate relationship regardless of the length of the relationship or 
gender/gender identity of the individuals in the relationship. Relationship violence 
includes conduct that would cause a reasonable person to be fearful for his or her 
safety. 
2.4.1 “Dating violence” is violence committed by a person who is or has been in 
a social relationship of a romantic or intimate nature with the victim; and 
where the existence of such a relationship shall be determined based on a 
consideration of the following factors: (a) the length of the relationship; 
(b) the type of relationship; and (c) the frequency of interaction between 
the persons involved in the relationship. Dating violence does not include 
acts covered under the definition of domestic violence. 
2.4.2 “Domestic violence” means abuse committed against an adult or a minor 
who is a spouse, former spouse, cohabitant, former cohabitant, or person 
with whom the suspect has had a child or is having or has had a dating or 
engagement relationship. For purposes of this subdivision, “cohabitant” 
means two unrelated adult persons living together for a substantial period 
of time, resulting in some permanency of relationship. Factors that may 
determine whether persons are cohabiting include, but are not limited to: 

COUNSELING AND HEALTH SERVICES 
 
Sexual Violence, Relationship 
Violence, Domestic Violence, Dating 
Violence, Sexual Assault and 
Stalking  
P-2541 
Assaults 2 of 7 
 
(1) sexual relations between the parties while sharing the same living 
quarters; (2) sharing of income or expenses; (3) joint use or ownership of 
property; (4) whether the parties hold themselves out as husband and wife; 
(5) the continuity of the relationship; and (6) the length of the relationship. 
(Pen. Code, § 13700, sub. (b).) 
2.5 “Stalking” means willfully, maliciously, and repeatedly following or willfully and 
maliciously harassing another person and making a credible threat with the intent 
to place a person in reasonable fear for his or her safety, or the safety of his or her 
immediate family. (Pen. Code, § 646.9, subd. (a).) 
2.6 “Affirmative consent” means affirmative, conscious, and voluntary agreement to 
engage in sexual activity. It is the responsibility of each person involved in the 
sexual activity to ensure that he or she has the affirmative consent of the other or 
others to engage in the sexual activity.  
2.6.1 Consent means positive cooperation in the act or expression of intent to 
engage in the act pursuant to an exercise of free will. Lack of protest or 
resistance does not mean consent, nor does silence mean consent.  
2.6.2 Affirmative consent must be ongoing throughout a sexual activity and can 
be revoked at any time. Consent to some form of sexual activity does not 
imply consent to other forms of sexual activity. The existence of a dating 
relationship between the persons involved, or the fact of past sexual 
relations between them, should never by itself be assumed to be an 
indicator of consent. 
2.6.3 Consent must be given without coercion, force, threats, or intimidation. 
2.6.4 Consent cannot be given when a person is incapacitated or otherwise 
unable or incapable of providing consent. A person cannot consent if she 
or he is unconscious or coming in and out of consciousness. A person 
cannot consent if she or he is under the threat of violence, bodily injury or 
other forms of coercion. A person cannot consent if her or his 
understanding of the act is affected by a physical or mental impairment. 
3.0  Standards 
3.1 Valid affirmative consent must be given by both parties to sexual activity at all 
times during the sexual conduct.   
3.2 In the evaluation of complaints in any investigation or disciplinary process, it 
shall not be a valid excuse to alleged lack of affirmative consent that the 
respondent believed that the complainant consented to the sexual activity under 
either of the following circumstances: 

COUNSELING AND HEALTH SERVICES 
 
Sexual Violence, Relationship 
Violence, Domestic Violence, Dating 
Violence, Sexual Assault and 
Stalking  
P-2541 
Assaults 3 of 7 
 
3.2.1 The respondent’s belief in affirmative consent arose from the intoxication 
or recklessness of the respondent. Being intoxicated by drugs or alcohol 
does not diminish one’s responsibility to obtain consent. 
3.2.2 The respondent did not take reasonable steps, in the circumstances known 
to the accused at the time, to ascertain whether the complainant 
affirmatively consented.     
3.3 In the evaluation of complaints in any investigation or disciplinary process, it 
shall not be a valid excuse that the respondent believed that the complainant 
affirmatively consented to the sexual activity if the respondent knew or 
reasonably should have known that the complainant was unable to consent to the 
sexual activity under any of the following circumstances: 
3.3.1 The complainant was asleep or unconscious. 
3.3.2 The complainant was incapacitated due to the influence of drugs, alcohol, 
or medication, so that the complainant could not understand the fact, 
nature, or extent of the sexual activity. Incapacitation is defined as the 
physical and/or mental inability to make informed, rational judgments. 
States of incapacitation include, but are not limited to, unconsciousness, 
sleep, and blackouts. Where alcohol or drugs are involved, incapacitation 
is defined with respect to how the alcohol or other drugs consumed affects 
a person’s decision-making capacity, awareness of consequences, and 
ability to make fully informed judgments. The factors to be considered 
when determining whether consent was given include whether the person 
accused (respondent) knew, or whether a reasonable person should have 
known, that the complainant was incapacitated. 
3.3.3 The complainant was unable to communicate due to a mental or physical 
condition. 
3.3.4 The complainant was under eighteen years old. (Pen. Code, § 261.5. 
4.0 Procedures Upon the Receipt of a Report of Sexual Assault, 
Relationship Violence, or Stalking 
4.1 The District/Colleges encourage the accurate and prompt reporting of all crimes 
to the Los Rios Police Department and the appropriate local police agencies 
where the victim wants to or is unable to make such a report. The 
District/Colleges encourage the accurate and prompt reporting of all incidents of 
sexual violence, relationship violence, domestic violence, dating violence, sexual 
assault and stalking to the College’s Equity Officer or Title IX Officer and the 
Los Rios Police Department and the appropriate local police agencies. The Los 
Rios Police Department shall be responsible for reporting crimes as required by 
Federal and State law and coordinating the criminal aspects of the report. 

COUNSELING AND HEALTH SERVICES 
 
Sexual Violence, Relationship 
Violence, Domestic Violence, Dating 
Violence, Sexual Assault and 
Stalking  
P-2541 
Assaults 4 of 7 
 
4.2 Sexual assault is a form of sexual harassment or sexual discrimination and should 
be reported under the District’s Discrimination and Harassment Procedures Policy 
and Administrative Regulation (P/R-2423). Domestic violence, dating violence 
and stalking which are based on gender are also forms of sexual harassment or 
sexual discrimination and should be reported under the District’s Discrimination 
and Harassment Procedures Policy and Administrative Regulation (P/R-2423). 
4.3 The District/College shall utilize its Discrimination and Harassment Procedures 
Policy and Administrative Regulation (P/R-2423) and the Student Due Process 
Policy and Regulation (P/R-2442) to resolve complaints of sexual violence, 
relationship violence, domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault and 
stalking and to impose the appropriate discipline. These procedures shall provide 
a prompt, fair, and impartial investigation and resolution of the matter. 
4.4 Complainants and third parties may make confidential reports of sexual violence, 
relationship violence, domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault and 
stalking. The District/College shall respect the privacy of individuals involved in 
these reports and shall keep the name of the complainant confidential. If 
compelled to reveal the complainant’s name to the respondent, the 
District/Colleges shall inform the complainant prior to the commencement of the 
investigation. Complainants and third parties may make confidential reports to 
designated confidential reporters.  
4.5 If the complainant requests confidentiality or asks that a complaint not be 
pursued, the District shall take all reasonable steps to investigate and respond to 
the complaint consistent with the request for confidentiality or request not to 
pursue an investigation. De-identified data shall be provided to the Los Rios 
Police Department and the College’s Title IX Officer. At the same time, the 
District shall evaluate the request in the context of its responsibility to provide a 
safe and nondiscriminatory environment for all students. The request for 
confidentiality shall be weighed against the following factors: the seriousness of 
the alleged harassment; the complainant’s age; whether there have been other 
harassment complaints about the same respondent; and the respondent’s rights to 
receive information about the allegations if the information is maintained by the 
District/College. Generally, the District/College shall conduct an investigation, 
despite a request that it not do so, if:  
4.5.1 The respondent is alleged to have committed one or more prior sexual acts 
of sexual violence, relationship violence, domestic violence, dating 
violence, sexual assault and stalking, or used a weapon in those prior 
act(s); or 
4.5.2 Sexual violence, relationship violence, domestic violence, dating violence, 
sexual assault and stalking occur repeatedly in a particular location or 
against a particular group. 

COUNSELING AND HEALTH SERVICES 
 
Sexual Violence, Relationship 
Violence, Domestic Violence, Dating 
Violence, Sexual Assault and 
Stalking  
P-2541 
Assaults 5 of 7 
 
4.6 In its initial response, each College shall provide the complainant with 
information to assist the complainant. This information shall include written 
documentation about preserving evidence and the identification and location of 
witnesses. 
4.7 The District/Colleges shall respond to reports of non-stranger sexual violence, 
relationship violence, domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault and 
stalking in the same manner as it does to reports of a stranger committing those 
acts. This response shall include appropriately reporting the matter to the police as 
well as engaging the discrimination and harassment complaint procedures and 
discipline procedures.  
4.8 The review of any incident of sexual violence, relationship violence, domestic 
violence, dating violence, sexual assault and stalking shall examine the role that 
alcohol or drugs may have played in the incident. Further, complainants and 
witnesses in an investigation of sexual violence, relationship violence, domestic 
violence, dating violence, sexual assault and stalking shall not be subject to 
discipline under the student Standards of Conduct unless the violation was 
egregious. An egregious violation is an action that places the health or safety of 
any other person at risk or involves plagiarism, cheating, or academic dishonesty.  
4.9 The complainant shall be interviewed by District/College personnel with annual 
training in responding to sexual violence, relationship violence, domestic 
violence, dating violence, sexual assault and stalking. The District/College 
personnel shall coordinate their response with law enforcement to the extent 
feasible to minimize the impact of the investigation on the complainant. The 
Colleges shall develop a complainant interview protocol, which shall include a 
comprehensive follow-up complainant interview, if appropriate. The complainant 
shall be asked about the identities and location of witnesses. The complainant 
shall have the right to have the participation of advocates and other supporting 
persons throughout the process. 
4.10 The respondent shall be contacted and interviewed by the Los Rios Police 
Department or local law enforcement. Following those interviews, the respondent 
shall be interviewed by the District/College personnel with training on responding 
to reports of sexual violence, relationship violence, domestic violence, dating 
violence, sexual assault and stalking. The respondent shall be asked about the 
identities and location of witnesses. 
4.11 The complainant shall be provided with written notification about the availability 
of, and contact information for, on-campus and off-campus resources and 
services, and coordination with law enforcement, as appropriate. In addition, the 
complainant shall be provided with information about criminal prosecutions; civil 
prosecutions; the disciplinary process through the College; and the availability of 
mediation, academic assistance alternatives, and mental health counseling. 

COUNSELING AND HEALTH SERVICES 
 
Sexual Violence, Relationship 
Violence, Domestic Violence, Dating 
Violence, Sexual Assault and 
Stalking  
P-2541 
Assaults 6 of 7 
 
4.12 The District shall provide a comprehensive, trauma-informed, training program 
for District/College officials involved in investigating and adjudicating sexual 
violence, relationship violence, domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault 
and stalking. 
4.13 In addition to the foregoing, each College shall develop primary prevention and 
awareness programs for all incoming students and new employees and 
complainant-centered written procedures that shall contain, at a minimum, the 
following information: 
4.13.1 The primary prevention and awareness program shall include: the 
District/College Policy prohibiting sexual violence, relationship violence, 
domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault and stalking; definitions 
of those terms; the definition of consent; and provide safe and positive 
options for bystander intervention that may be carried out by an individual 
to prevent harm or intervene in cases of a risk of sexual violence, 
relationship violence, domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault 
and stalking. 
4.13.2 Personnel at the College who should be notified, and procedures for 
notification, with the consent of the complainant. 
4.13.3 Legal reporting requirements and procedures for fulfilling them. 
4.13.4 A description of College services and resources available to complainants, 
as well as appropriate off-campus services. 
4.13.5 Procedures for ongoing case management, including procedures for 
keeping the complainant informed of the status of any student disciplinary 
proceedings in connection with sexual violence, relationship violence, 
domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault and stalking, and the 
results of any disciplinary action or appeal, and helping the complainant 
deal with academic difficulties that may arise because of the victimization 
and its impact. 
5.0 Education 
5.1 The College written procedures shall be published in all student, faculty, and staff 
handbooks and shall be given to any student or employee who is the victim of 
sexual violence, relationship violence, domestic violence, dating violence, sexual 
assault and stalking. 
5.2 Ongoing prevention and awareness campaigns shall be made available to 
students, staff and faculty. 
5.3 Faculty, staff and students may obtain information about registered sex offenders 

COUNSELING AND HEALTH SERVICES 
 
Sexual Violence, Relationship 
Violence, Domestic Violence, Dating 
Violence, Sexual Assault and 
Stalking  
P-2541 
Assaults 7 of 7 
 
from the Los Rios Police Department. 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 2/20/91 
Policy Revised: 8/21/96; 4/8/15; 7/13/16 
Policy Reviewed: 7/13/16 
Adm. Regulation None