DISTRICT PROGRAMS IN THE COMMUNITY 
 
Programs P-1511 
Community Education 1 of 3 
 
1.0  Definition of Community Education 
1.1 Activities designed to meet the broad needs of the community coexistent with the 
regular on-going, on-campus program are categorized community education 
programs.  Such activities can be either at on-campus or off-campus sites.  Because 
the extent of the activities is directly related to community need, components of the 
program will most likely include, but are not limited to, the following:  Credit and 
non-credit classes, adult education, continuing education, community services 
classes, community development activities, contract programs, developmental 
outreach and interagency relations. 
2.0  Goals of Community Education 
2.1 It is the purpose of the community education program in the Los Rios Community 
College District to: 
2.1.1 Offer to the community at convenient locations, college classes and 
services consistent with community needs and those of the District as a 
whole. 
2.1.2 Provide these classes and services in as efficient and equitable a manner as 
possible, consistent with high-quality programs. 
2.1.3 Provide equal opportunities for access to District services to all segments 
of the community. 
2.1.4 Meet the educational needs of the expanding population of the 
community. 
2.1.5 Serve the needs of a changing clientele. 
2.1.6 Assist with the economic development of the community. 
2.1.7 Interface and articulate with and complement the other programs of the 
Colleges. 
2.1.8 Continue to provide classes and services off campus where campus 
overcrowding cannot accommodate further enrollment while encouraging 
campus use when facilities are available. 
2.1.9 Acquaint the community with the capabilities and services of the District 
and, in particular, its community education program through a 
comprehensive public information system. 
2.1.10 Engage the community in on-going, comprehensive planning to establish 
the mission, goals and objectives of the community education program 
and its components. 

DISTRICT PROGRAMS IN THE COMMUNITY 
 
Programs P-1511 
Community Education 2 of 3 
 
2.1.11 Facilitate through formalized contact, encouragement, support or 
cooperation the development of a full community educational effort 
involving other community agencies which provide educational services 
2.1.12 Encourage members of the community to come to the campuses either as 
users or as participants in events sponsored by the college. 
3.0  Programs in Community Education 
3.1 Credit Classes 
3.1.1 All on-campus classes will be eligible for off-campus offering where there 
is a need established and appropriate facilities and resources are 
reasonably available. 
3.2 Adult Education 
3.2.1 Classes which are non-credit and are supported by State funding are called 
"Adult Education Classes." 
3.3 Community Services Activities 
3.3.1 An important segment of community education is community services 
activities consisting of short-term classes, seminars, workshops, cultural 
programs, recreational activities and continuing education for professional 
development. 
3.3.2 The demand for community services activities each year exceeds the 
budget made available to support programs of this nature.  In order to 
provide additional services, a variable fee to cover the cost of providing 
these additional services beyond those budgeted for will be charged 
participants in programs offered. 
3.3.3 The fee established for each program shall be sufficient to meet the 
anticipated cost of the program and should reflect direct and indirect costs. 
3.3.4 The District policy on fee waiver will apply to community services 
programs. 
3.3.5 The District/College shall not recognize any trip where the appropriate 
prior approval has not been obtained as required in the administrative 
regulations for the implementation of this policy. In this circumstance, the 
District/College shall not be liable for any financial costs, personal injury 
or death, lost property, lost income or any other loss arising out of that 
trip. Further, the District/College shall no indemnify and/or defend any 
person who participates in such a trip where these approval policies and 
regulations have not been followed. 

DISTRICT PROGRAMS IN THE COMMUNITY 
 
Programs P-1511 
Community Education 3 of 3 
 
3.4 Contract Programs 
3.4.1 Relationships may be established with public and private agencies to offer 
specialized programs on site or at other convenient locations in such areas 
as in-service training or classes for credit or non-credit designed to meet 
the specific needs of industry or agencies. 
3.5 Developmental Outreach Programs 
3.5.1 Special programs may be established to meet the needs of specific 
segments of the population who may require special resources to prepare 
them to be regular participants in the instructional program. 
3.6 Relations with Other Agencies 
3.6.1 Ongoing contact with other agencies should be established to assure that 
comprehensive coordinated policies and programs exist to serve the 
educational needs of the community. 
3.7 Continuing Education 
3.7.1 Classes for professionals may be designed and offered by the Colleges to 
provide mandated skills update and improvement. 
3.8 Student Services 
3.8.1 Student services that complement the instructional services authorized 
above may be offered off campus as the need is established and resources 
are reasonably available. 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 7/5/72 
Policy Revised: 3/20/74; 10/10/79; 11/5/80; 5/20/81; 2/7/90; 12/12/07 
Policy Reviewed:  
Adm. Regulation: R-1511