BUILDING CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM 
 
Naming of Facilities and Areas   P-8431 
Memorials 1 of 5 
 
1.0 Purpose 
The Los Rios Community College District has a long-standing practice of naming District 
property after persons or entities who have made important contributions to the District, whether 
financial or otherwise. This Policy governs those practices, with a focus on and intention of 
increasing private giving to the District, reserving naming opportunities primarily to donors 
making financial contributions to the District needed to support its Colleges and students. 
Namings without private support are permissible but are reserved for the most exceptional 
circumstances.  
 
2.0 Authority & Responsibility for Making Recommendations 
2.1 The following bodies and individuals have authority to approve proposed naming 
opportunities, as outlined below: 
2.1.1 The District’s Board of Trustees has the authority to approve the naming 
of the facilities and properties of the District and its Colleges and to 
delegate the review and approval of such namings, as it has done so in this 
Policy or otherwise elects to do so in the future. The Board of Trustees 
further reserves the right to waive the requirements of this Policy. 
2.1.2 The Board of Trustees reserves to itself the authority to approve 
recommended namings for buildings and major portions of buildings; 
stadiums, arenas, athletic fields, and other highly visible facilities and 
properties (each a “Major Facility”). 
2.1.3 The Board of Trustees delegates to the Chancellor the authority to name 
minor properties, including plazas, courtyards, classrooms, offices, 
conference rooms, lounges, laboratories, studios, and rooms within 
buildings (each a “Minor Property”). The Chancellor may sub-delegate the 
authority to name a Minor Property to a College President, at the 
Chancellor’s discretion. 
2.1.4 Non-public facing spaces with limited public exposure or small or 
temporary items, such as benches, small landscape features, fountains, 
trees, gardens, bricks, donor walls, and equipment or collections are 
excluded from this Policy and any namings with respect to such spaces or 
items may be approved by the College Presidents or their designees. 
2.2 The Los Rios Colleges Foundation (Foundation) does not have the authority to 
approve naming proposals. Instead, the Foundation is expected to and shall make 
naming recommendations in connection with its philanthropic activities, to the 
Board of Trustees, Chancellor, or College Presidents, depending on who has 
authority to approve the type of naming at issue, consistent with the requirements 
of this Policy. 

BUILDING CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM 
 
Naming of Facilities and Areas   P-8431 
Memorials 2 of 5 
 
2.3 The College Presidents and the Chancellor also have the authority to make 
proposed naming recommendations with respect to Major Facilities to the Board 
of Trustees. 
3.0 Principles, Guidelines, and Requirements that Apply to All Namings 
3.1 The naming of a building or place is a matter of serious commitment, with long-
term implications for the District. Accordingly, no naming may be approved on a 
permanent basis. Instead, for all namings, the District reserves the right to remove 
a naming if the Board of Trustees or its designee determines, in its sole discretion, 
that the naming could adversely impact the reputation, image, mission, or 
integrity of the District or the Colleges or is no longer in the best interests of the 
District or the Colleges. The Board of Trustees further reserves the right to 
remove a naming, whether on a Major Facility or Minor Property, in the event of 
significant renovation, repurposing, or relocation of the facility or area where the 
naming is located. Renaming may also occur when a facility or area has reached 
the end of its useful life. Any approval of a naming pursuant to this Policy is 
subject to these reserved rights. The Foundation and District and College 
administration shall take care to memorialize these rights as is appropriate under 
the given circumstances, such as in a donor agreement, but the failure to do so 
shall not render or void the reservation of rights in this Policy and any approval of 
a naming shall nonetheless be subject to these reservations of rights. 
3.2 Subunits of a new or existing building may be named separately to recognize an 
outstanding individual or a donor wishing to contribute the cost of a portion of a 
building, a room in a building, a major equipment item, a major art feature or 
water feature, and the like. 
 
3.3 No facility or property will be named after seated, elected, or appointed officials 
currently in office. 
3.4 In all instances where the word “person,” “individual,” or “donor,” is used in this 
District Policy, the same shall be deemed to include corporations, foundations, or 
other appropriate legal entities. 
3.5 When the Board of Trustees, Chancellor, or a President is considering a naming 
proposal, they shall consider, among other things: whether the proposed naming 
would lend prestige to the District, College, staff, students, and community; the 
credentials, character, and reputation of the person; and the person’s contribution, 
including any monetary donations to support the District or its Colleges; and any 
potential costs associated with the naming. 
3.6 The Chancellor or College Presidents shall consult with the appropriate College 
constituencies (including, but not limited to, the Academic Senate, the Classified 
Senate, the Student Body Associations, etc.) before bringing a recommendation to 
the Board of Trustees to name a Major Facility. The Chancellor or the College 
Presidents shall also consult with the Executive Vice Chancellor Finance and the 

BUILDING CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM 
 
Naming of Facilities and Areas   P-8431 
Memorials 3 of 5 
 
Chief Advancement Officer prior to presenting recommendations to the Board of 
Trustees with respect to naming a Major Facility. 
3.7 The Chancellor or College Presidents shall consult with the Executive Vice 
Chancellor Finance, the Chief Advancement Officer, and the appropriate College 
constituencies (including, but not limited to, the Academic Senate, the Classified 
Senate, the Student Body Associations, etc.) prior to naming a Minor Property. 
3.8 Proposals for namings shall be submitted in writing and should identify and 
discuss the considerations outlined in this Policy and any other relevant 
considerations, as well as how the District will memorialize its reservation of 
rights listed above in the Policy. 
 
4.0 Namings Provided to Thank a Donor 
4.1 The vast majority of namings should be made solely in connection with 
donations, because naming opportunities provide a significant way of 
incentivizing philanthropic support for the District and its Colleges and are a 
means of thanking donors. 
4.2 When reviewing a naming proposal in connection with a donation, the following 
additional factors may be considered, in addition to the general considerations 
listed above: 
4.2.1 The significance of the proposed donation in contributing to the success or 
realization of a capital campaign, construction project, or other fundraising 
related project; 
4.2.2 The urgency of the fundraising related project’s need or the need for 
funding support; 
4.2.3 The individual’s relationship to the District; 
4.2.4 Whether the individual or entity has made other substantial gifts to the 
College or the District through the Foundation or otherwise. 
4.3 When an individual donor gift is involved, the naming shall be for the useful life 
of the facility or for a defined period of years. The useful life is generally defined 
as until the facility or property is destroyed or substantially renovated. 
4.4 Namings after corporations, businesses, or other commercial entities (whether 
operated for profit or not) may only be approved in connection with a significant 
donation to support the District or its Colleges.  Any such naming after a 
corporation, business or other commercial entity must be limited to a defined 
number of years. 
4.5 When a corporate or commercial entity is involved, the size, design, and wording 
of plaques and other signs that are in connection with the donation should be 
modest in size and exclude corporate logos to avoid the appearance of advertising. 

BUILDING CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM 
 
Naming of Facilities and Areas   P-8431 
Memorials 4 of 5 
 
4.6 A financial gift shall not automatically result in a naming, whether a Major 
Facility or Minor Property, for an individual. 
 
5.0 Namings to Honor a Member of the Community  
5.1 In rare instances, when there is a proposal to provide a naming to a person to 
honor them, unconnected to a donation from that person, the proposal should 
address and demonstrate how that person has demonstrated distinction in one or 
more of the following ways: 
5.1.1 Academic Service: The individual has shown outstanding scholarly 
achievement and earned a strong national or international scholarly 
reputation while serving the institution in an academic role. 
5.1.2 Exceptional Contribution or Distinction: The individual has made 
extraordinary contributions to the District or achieved a level of distinction 
that justifies formal recognition. 
5.2 Honorary names of Major Facilities shall be proposed to the Board upon the 
advice and recommendation of the Chancellor. Honorary names of Minor 
Properties must be approved directly by the Chancellor and College President, 
consistent with any delegation of authority under this Policy.    
5.3 Naming proposals after current District employees are not permitted. When an 
area or building is proposed to be named for former employees with the District, a 
period of not less than three years should elapse between the end of the 
individual’s service to the District and the naming proposal. 
 
6.0 Guidelines Regarding Uniformity in Signage and Style 
6.1 A uniform system of marking of buildings and outdoor areas should be adopted 
by location. 
6.2 Plaques and signage should be tasteful, discrete, and consistent with other campus 
signage as determined by the Associate Vice Chancellor of Facilities 
Management.  
6.3 When honoring an individual and using a plaque, the plaque should be located in 
the lobby or other significant location, giving the full name and brief biography of 
the person honored. 
6.4 To minimize exterior lettering, listings in directories, mailing addresses, and the 
like, as well as to ensure that the use of the new name becomes commonplace 
within the lexicon of the College and District, the naming of a building to honor 
an individual should use the surname only, as in “Raef Hall” and “Rodda Hall.” 
(Formerly P-4623) 

BUILDING CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM 
 
Naming of Facilities and Areas   P-8431 
Memorials 5 of 5 
 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 1/18/67 
Policy Revised: 8/10/77; 1/14/81; 6/16/82; 1/17/01; 12/15/10; 4/8/15; 10/21/15; 2/17/16; 
12/14/16; 1/16/19; 11/13/19; 3/11/26 
Policy Reviewed: 12/14/16; 1/16/19; 11/13/19; 3/11/26 
Adm. Regulation: None