INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 
 
Contracted Programs P-7127 
Instructional Program 1 of 1 
 
1.0  Authorization to Contract 
1.1 The Los Rios Community College District will cooperate with and assist agencies 
in developing collegiate level, in-service training educational programs that 
promote effective public service rendered in an efficient manner by public 
employees. 
1.2 In accordance with the educational goals of the District to facilitate and encourage 
the continuing education of its residents, the colleges of the District will assist 
such employees enrolled in a governmental in-service educational program to 
complete a regular college degree or certificate program. 
1.3 This will be accomplished by providing for an affiliation process whereby an 
agency offering a collegiate level, in-service educational training program may 
contract in advance for its trainees to receive college credit from one of the 
District colleges for educational experience provided by the agency. 
1.3.1 Contracted courses/programs must be adopted as part of the curriculum of 
the Los Rios District and be taught by credentialed employees of the 
District. 
1.4 The college will provide educational counseling services to trainees to inform 
them of opportunities available to complete the requirements for a degree or 
certificate offered by the college. 
1.5 Contracts 
1.5.1 The Chancellor/Superintendent or designee shall develop the criteria for 
affiliation contracts to be recommended to the Board of Trustees for 
adoption. 
1.5.2 Such contracts may be routinely extended if terms of the contract are not 
modified.  
1.5.3 The agency shall assume all costs of the program if training is not offered 
to the general public on an open registration basis. 
1.6 Annual Review  
1.6.1 The criteria will assure that all District standards for educational programs 
are met and that an annual review of affiliated programs will be given to 
the Board of Trustees at the date of contract renewal. 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 5/19/65 
Policy Revised: 9/1/65; 1/28/81; 4/21/82 
Policy Reviewed:  
Adm. Regulation: R-7127