STUDENT DEVELOPMENT 
 
Student Body Associations  P-2311 
Student Organizations and Activities  1 of 8 
 
1.0  Statement of Authorization (Ed. Code, § 76060.) 
1.1 The Los Rios Community College District Board of Trustees authorizes the 
students of each of the Colleges of the District to organize a student body 
association that shall consist of only the following components: a Student Senate, 
Clubs and Events Board, and a Joint Budget Committee. Each student body 
association shall have a single constitution which shall be ratified by the students 
and is subject to approval by the Board of Trustees. All currently enrolled 
students of each College shall be members of the College’s student body 
association and only enrolled students at that College are eligible to participate as 
members and officers of the student body association and each of its components. 
Students who wish to may opt out of membership in the student body association. 
The acts and omission of the student body associations and each of its 
components are subject to the review and approval of appropriate College 
officials. 
1.2 The student body association and each of its components shall work in direct 
consultation with the office of student life at the College. 
1.3 The student body association and each of its components shall be cognizant that 
they represent diverse student populations. 
2.0  Statement of Purview 
2.1 Student Senate of the Student Body Association 
2.1.1 Recognition 
2.1.1.1 The Board of Trustees recognizes the Student Senate of the student 
body association at each College as the representative body of the 
students to participate in the College’s and/or District’s 
participatory governance processes. (Title 5, § 51023.7.) The 
Student Senate of the student body association also serves as the 
means through which students may be nominated to participate on 
College and/or District committees, task forces or other 
governance groups. Further, the Student Senate of the student body 
association serves to provide input into the formation of College 
and District policies and procedures that have or will have a 
significant effect on students.  Only the Student Senate of the 
student body association is authorized to take positions on 
legislative issues. 
2.1.2 Representation and Responsibilities 
2.1.2.1 The Student Senate of the student body association shall broadly 
represent the diverse student body attending each of the Colleges 
of the District.  Further, the Student Senate of the student body 
association shall encourage a broad cross-section of students to 

STUDENT DEVELOPMENT 
 
Student Body Associations  P-2311 
Student Organizations and Activities  2 of 8 
 
participate in the governance of the College and/or District. The 
College Student Senate of the student body association represents 
all students of the College on the following matters that have a 
significant effect on students: 1) grading policies; 2) codes of 
student conduct; 3) academic disciplinary policies; 4) curriculum 
development; 5) initiation or discontinuation of courses or 
programs of study; 6) institutional planning and budget 
development; 7) standards and policies regarding student 
preparation and success; 8) student services planning and 
development; 9) any student fees within the authority of the 
District to adopt; and 10) any other District or College policy, 
procedure, or related matter that the Board of Trustees determines 
will have a significant effect on students.  (Title 5, § 51023.7.) 
2.1.3 Coordination 
2.1.3.1 There shall be a mechanism for assuring communication between 
the Student Senate and the Clubs and Events Board of the student 
body association. In accordance with its purview in this section 
2.1, the Student Senate of the student body association may 
coordinate with the Clubs and Events Board of the student body 
association to provide large scale events that encourage student 
lobbying and other allowable uses of the student representation fee. 
The Student Senate of the student body association may coordinate 
with the appropriate College professional development committee 
to plan large-scale events for students, faculty and staff. 
2.1.4 Allocation 
2.1.4.1 The Student Senate of the student body association shall receive an 
annual allocation for general expenses determined by a formula set 
by the College’s Joint Budget Committee of the student body 
association in consultation with the office of student life and may 
petition the Joint Budget Committee of the student body 
association for additional funds to support projects related to the 
Student Senate of the student body association. The Student Senate 
of the student body association shall also receive an annual 
allocation from the College’s student representation fee. (Ed. 
Code, § 76060.5.) 
2.1.5 Expenditures 
2.1.5.1 The Student Senate of the student body association shall have the 
authority to recommend to the office of student life the expenditure 
of its allocated funds. The Student Senate of the student body 
association shall have the authority to recommend to the office of 
student life expenditures of the College’s student representation 
fees for activities and trips for which those funds are authorized.  

STUDENT DEVELOPMENT 
 
Student Body Associations  P-2311 
Student Organizations and Activities  3 of 8 
 
(Ed. Code, § 76060.5.)  
2.1.6 Membership 
2.1.6.1 Members and officers of the Student Senate of the student body 
association shall be elected from the student body. The District 
Student Trustee may not serve as the president of a Student Senate 
of the student body association during his or her term as Student 
Trustee.  No candidate may run for Student Trustee and a Student 
Senate Presidency in the same election. At any one time, a student 
may serve only on a single Student Senate of the student body 
association for any of the District Colleges. 
2.1.7 Bylaws 
2.1.7.1 Each Student Senate of the student body association shall have 
bylaws that govern its operation consistent with District Policies 
and Administrative Regulations and with College guidelines and 
procedures. 
2.2 Clubs and Events Board of the Student Body Association 
2.2.1 Recognition 
2.2.1.1 The Board of Trustees recognizes the Clubs and Events Board of 
the student body association as the group responsible for 
promoting the intellectual, artistic and social life of students by 
supporting authorized clubs and programming events. The 
activities of the Club and Events Board shall be coordinated 
through the office of student life at the College.    
2.2.2 Responsibilities 
2.2.2.1 The Clubs and Events Board of the student body association, in 
conjunction with the office of student life, shall encourage the 
formation of authorized College clubs and provide for the 
opportunities to conduct individual student club event 
programming consistent with District and College policy, and for 
the coordination of activities and celebrations for the entire 
College. 
2.2.3 Coordination 
2.2.3.1 There shall be a mechanism for assuring communication between 
the Clubs and Events Board and the Student Senate of the student 
body association.  In accordance with its purview in this section 
2.2, the Clubs and Events Board of the student body association 
may coordinate with the Student Senate of the student body 
association to provide large scale events that encourage student 

STUDENT DEVELOPMENT 
 
Student Body Associations  P-2311 
Student Organizations and Activities  4 of 8 
 
lobbying and other allowable uses of the student representation fee. 
The Clubs and Events Board of the student body association may 
coordinate with the appropriate College professional development 
committee to plan large-scale events for students, faculty and staff.  
2.2.4 Allocation 
2.2.4.1 The Clubs and Events Board of the student body association shall 
receive an annual allocation for general expenses and events 
determined by a formula set by the Joint Budget Committee of the 
student body association in consultation with the office of student 
life and may petition the Joint Budget Committee of the student 
body association for additional funds to support activities and 
events related to the Clubs and Events Board of the student body 
association.  
2.2.5 Expenditures 
2.2.5.1 The Clubs and Events Board of the student body association shall 
have the authority to recommend to the office of student life the 
expenditure of its allocated funds. 
2.2.6 Membership 
2.2.6.1 The officers of the Clubs and Events Board of the student body 
association shall be elected from the student body. The Clubs and 
Events Board of the student body association shall have 
representatives from authorized student clubs and may also have 
additional members from the student body. At any one time, a 
student may serve only on a single Clubs and Events Board of the 
student body association for any of the District Colleges. 
2.2.7 Bylaws 
2.2.7.1 Each Clubs and Events Board of the student body association shall 
have bylaws that govern its operation consistent with District 
Policies and Administrative Regulations and with College 
guidelines and procedures. 
3.0  Legislative Matters 
3.2 The Student Senate of the student body association at each College shall not adopt 
official positions on specific legislative issues unless the outcome will have a 
significant effect on (a) the students in their role as community college students; (b) 
College or District policies, regulations, or procedures; or (c) participatory 
governance of the College and/or District.  The Student Senate of the student body 
association at each College may adopt resolutions related to statewide and local 
education bonds.  In no event shall a Student Senate of the student body association 

STUDENT DEVELOPMENT 
 
Student Body Associations  P-2311 
Student Organizations and Activities  5 of 8 
 
endorse or oppose a candidate for political office. 
3.3 Any position taken by the Student Senate of the student body association on specific 
legislative issues shall be the official position of the student body association only 
and does not necessarily reflect the position of the Board of Trustees, the District, the 
College, the students of any other College, the personal opinion of any member of 
the student body association and each of its components, the Chancellor, the faculty 
or any staff member.  
4.0  Use of Premises 
4.1 A College student body association and each of its components may be granted the 
use of College premises and properties for officially-authorized activities without 
charge, subject to established Administrative Regulations. 
5.0  Elections 
5.1 The Student Senate and Clubs and Events Board of the student body association shall 
hold elections. All elections shall be subject to the direction and supervision of the 
College’s Vice President of Student Services, or designee. 
5.2 Students may vote in the student body association elections at any and all Colleges at 
which they are enrolled at the time of the election. 
5.3 It is the intent of the Board of Trustees that the elections for the student body 
association and each of its components shall be held in accordance with all of the 
following principles: 
5.3.1 The elections shall be a learning experience about representative 
democracy, free and fair elections and voting. 
5.3.2 The elections shall be fundamentally fair. 
5.3.3 The elections shall uniformly enfranchise eligible voters with elections 
open to students.  
5.3.4 The election shall be based on the universal suffrage principle of “one 
person-one vote.” 
5.3.5 The election shall preserve the confidentiality of the ballot. 
5.3.6 The election process shall provide for the adequate distribution and 
display of comprehensive campaign information to all eligible voters.  
5.3.7 The election process shall be subject to limitations on campaign 
expenditures.  
5.3.8 The election counting processes shall be transparent. 

STUDENT DEVELOPMENT 
 
Student Body Associations  P-2311 
Student Organizations and Activities  6 of 8 
 
5.4 The Colleges retain oversight over these elections and may investigate any 
irregularities that may have affected the fundamental fairness of the elections. 
5.5 In the event the President of the College, or his/her designee, concludes there was a 
material irregularity in the election, the President, or his or her designee may: 
5.5.1 Validate the election; 
5.5.2 Invalidate the election and require a re-election;  
5.5.3 Validate the election by excluding votes from a polling place where the 
irregularity occurred; or 
5.5.4 Make any other determination that fairness requires. 
5.6 The students of a College may recall an officer or member of the Student Senate or 
the Club and Events Board of the student body association under the following 
conditions: 
5.6.1 The submission of a petition to the office of student life at a College 
containing the required number of signatures shall be sufficient to enact a 
recall election for the position of the officer or member named in the 
petition.  The required number of signatures to enact a recall election is 
two-thirds (2/3) of the number of students who voted in the election in 
which the officer or member was elected.  Only signatures of currently 
enrolled students shall count towards the required number of signatures. 
5.6.2 The recall election shall be held no later than fourteen (14) days after the 
requirements to enact the recall have been fulfilled and shall comply with 
the requirements of this section 5.0. 
5.6.3 A member or officer shall be recalled if more than three-quarters (3/4) of 
the students voting in the recall election vote in favor of the recall. 
6.0  Vacancies 
6.1 Definition of Vacancy 
6.1.1 If no student has been elected to an office of the Student Senate or the 
Club and Events Board of the student body association during an election, 
that seat shall become vacant on the day the members and officers elected 
in that election take office. 
6.1.2 If a student officer or member of the Student Senate, the Club and Events 
Board or the Joint Budget Committee of the student body association has 
more than the permissible consecutive unexcused absences or unexcused 
tardies for regular meetings as determined by the student body 
association’s Constitution, that seat shall become vacant upon the date of 
the final unexcused absence or unexcused tardy. 

STUDENT DEVELOPMENT 
 
Student Body Associations  P-2311 
Student Organizations and Activities  7 of 8 
 
6.1.3 The seat of a student officer or member of the Student Senate, the Club 
and Events Board or the Joint Budget Committee of the student body 
association shall become vacant if he or she is unable to complete his/her 
term because (a) he or she engaged in illegal behavior while acting in his 
or her role as a member of the student body association or any of its 
components; (b) failed to maintain qualifications for the office; or (c) 
resigned. 
6.1.4 The seat of a student officer or member of the Student Senate or the Club 
and Events Board of the student body association shall become vacant if 
he or she is recalled. 
6.1.5 The seat of a student officer or member of the Student Senate or the Clubs 
and Events Board of the student body association shall become vacant if 
he or she fails to meet required orientation and leadership development 
activities and as a result is not eligible to serve.    
6.1.6 No student officer or member of the Student Senate, the Club and Events 
Board or the Joint Budget Committee of the student body association may 
be removed from office except as provided by this District Policy and 
Administrative Regulation R-2311. 
6.2 Procedure for Filling Vacancy 
6.2.1 In the event of a vacancy, the Student Senate or the Clubs and Events 
Board of the student body association shall fill the vacancy by 
appointment or election as determined by the Senate or Board in 
accordance with Administrative Regulation R-2311 and the student body 
association’s Constitution and Bylaws. 
7.0  Dissolution and Effective Date 
7.1 Any one or all of the student body associations, and each of their components, are 
subject to dissolution by the Board of Trustees for the following reasons: 
7.1.1 For violating applicable federal, state, or local law or regulations;  
7.1.2 For violating applicable District Policies and Administrative Regulations;  
7.1.3 For willfully failing to participate in the participatory governance of the 
College or District;  
7.1.4 Other good cause as determined by the Board of Trustees; or 
7.1.5 Any reason in the discretion of the Board of Trustees. 
8.0  Administrative Regulations 
8.1 The Chancellor shall develop administrative regulations to implement this policy. 

STUDENT DEVELOPMENT 
 
Student Body Associations  P-2311 
Student Organizations and Activities  8 of 8 
 
 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 5/1/91  
Policy Revised: 11/17/10; 12/14/11; 6/11/14 
Policy Reviewed:  
Adm. Regulation R-2311