ADMINISTRATIVE COMPUTER USE 
 
Information Security P-8871 
Security 1 of 2 
 
1.0 Security 
1.1 Information security is an area of utmost concern and importance to the Los Rios 
Community College District. Given the rapid pace of technological change, the 
decentralization of computing, and the proliferation of computers, networks and 
users of varying capabilities, it is essential that these systems be protected from 
misuse and unauthorized access. This Policy and corresponding Administrative 
Regulation are established to help maintain the security of District Systems and to 
inform all users of their rights and responsibilities relative to computer security 
awareness. 
1.2 Storage of District data on the District’s Systems and transfer of data across its 
internal network supports efficient work processes. Commensurate with that 
efficiency is the need for the appropriate security measures. Protection of 
confidential information is a primary goal of the District and should be achieved 
in all aspects of data collection and use. 
1.3 This Information Security Policy (Policy) recognizes that not all communities 
within the District are the same and that data are used differently by various 
operating units within the District.  This Policy, however, applies to all operating 
units within the District.  While all confidential information shall be handled and 
stored in a manner that will protect the privacy of students, faculty and staff of the 
District, this Policy addresses requirements for confidential information stored 
and transmitted in electronic form on computers and computer networks.  For 
purposes of this Policy and accompanying Administrative Regulation, operating 
units include each separate department at each of the Colleges and the District 
Office (for example, Financial Aid, Admissions and Records, each of the 
academic departments, Human Resources, Business Services, General Services, 
the Los Rios Police Department, etc.). 
1.4 Each operating unit within the District shall apply this Policy to meet information 
confidentiality and data security needs. The Policy is written to incorporate 
current technological advances. The technology installed at some operating units 
may limit immediate compliance with the Policy. Instances of non-compliance 
shall be reviewed with and approved by the Associate Vice Chancellor of 
Information Technology or the Dean of the Department responsible for 
Information Technology at each campus. 
2.0 Purpose 
2.1 Information security means protection of the District's data, applications, 
networks, and computer systems from misuse and unauthorized access, alteration, 
or destruction. 
2.2 The purpose of this Information Security Policy and Regulation is: 
2.2.1 To establish a District-wide approach to information security. 

ADMINISTRATIVE COMPUTER USE 
 
Information Security P-8871 
Security 2 of 2 
 
2.2.2 To prescribe mechanisms that help identify and prevent the compromise of 
information security and the misuse of District data, applications, 
networks and computer systems. 
2.2.3 To define mechanisms that protect the reputation of the District and allow 
the District to satisfy its responsibilities with regard to its networks' and 
computer systems' connectivity to worldwide networks. 
2.2.4 To prescribe an effective mechanism to respond to external and internal 
complaints and queries about real or perceived non-compliance with this 
Policy. 
3.0 Administrative Regulations  
3.1 The Chancellor shall adopt administrative regulations regarding security. 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 4/5/00  
Policy Revised: 5/16/07; 12/15/10 
Policy Reviewed:  
Adm. Regulation: R-8871