EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Performance Evaluation   P-9141 
Evaluation 1 of 2 
 
1.0 Academic Employee 
1.1 A tenured academic employee, when assigned from a faculty position to a 
management position or assigned any special or other type of work or given 
special classification or designation, shall remain a tenured faculty member.  
(Education Code ' 87454) 
1.2 All persons employed in a management position before July 1, 1990 will be 
subject to rules and regulations regarding reassignment to a non-management 
position that were in practice as of June 30, 1990. 
2.0 Managers 
2.1 Except for a manager in a categorical or specially funded position, a manager who 
has not previously acquired tenured status as a faculty member shall have the 
right of assignment as a first-year probationary faculty member once the 
managerial assignment ends, or if the manager's request for assignment is 
approved, if all of the following apply: 
2.1.1 The manager holds a credential in the discipline of the assignment or 
meets the minimum qualifications or equivalencies for the discipline to 
which the manager will be assigned as delineated in the District's list of 
minimum qualifications and equivalencies.  For purposes of this policy, 
recency in the discipline would not be a condition of reassignment. 
2.1.2 The manager has completed at least two years of satisfactory District 
service, including any prior District service as a faculty member. 
2.1.3 The termination of the management assignment is for any reason other 
than cause. 
2.1.4 The reasons for the assignment are presented to the manager in writing by 
the Chancellor on behalf of the Board of Trustees, if requested by the 
manager. (Education Code Section 87458) 
2.2 Section 2.1 shall not apply to a manager in a categorical or specially funded 
position.   
2.3 Nothing in this policy will prohibit a manager from receiving an administrative 
review of the decision to assign to faculty in accordance with Board Policy and 
Regulation P-9321/R-9321, if requested. 
3.0 Determination of Assignment 
3.1 The Chancellor, acting on behalf of the Board of Trustees, shall seek the advice 
and judgment of the District Academic Senate when considering the discipline of 
the assignment of a manager to the faculty.  The Chancellor will include the 
District Senate=s written recommendation together with the recommendation 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Performance Evaluation   P-9141 
Evaluation 2 of 2 
 
being presented to the Board.  A written record of the decision of the Board, 
including the views of the District Academic Senate, shall be available for review.  
(Education Code ' 87458) 
3.2 Whenever possible, the manager will be assigned to a discipline in which the 
manager has not only the minimum qualifications, but where the following 
conditions apply: 
3.2.1 There are sufficient assignments in the discipline or service at one college 
or location currently held by temporary faculty to make a full-time 
assignment for an additional faculty member; 
3.2.2 The manager has indicated a preference for the assignment in writing. 
4.0 Retraining 
4.1 Opportunities for retraining (up to one semester) may be made available to 
managers being considered for reassignment.  The Chancellor or designee and the 
manager will develop the retraining goals and the courses of study or training 
activities to be undertaken to achieve these goals. 
4.2 The manager shall agree in writing to serve the District for two (2) years 
following a retraining leave.  At the option of the District, this requirement may 
be waived. 
4.3 Vacation will not continue to accrue during a retraining leave.  Accrued vacation 
will be paid if the manager is reassigned to a different employee unit. 
4.4 A manager may be assigned other duties during a retraining leave. 
 (Formerly R-9131) 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 12/14/77 
Policy Revised: 2/18/81; 6/16/82; 2/3/93; 12/9/98 
Policy Reviewed:  
Adm. Regulation R-9141