INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM Information and Communication Technology 
Accessibility 
P-7136 
Instructional Arrangements  1 of 3 
 
1.0 Intent 
1.1 It is the policy of the Los Rios Community College District and its Colleges to 
work to provide Information and Communication Technology (ICT) that is 
accessible to current and future students, faculty, staff, and other constituents, and 
to make the District/Colleges accessible institutions.  
1.2 The District/Colleges are committed to working to provide websites, learning 
management systems, course materials, documents, and business applications that 
are usable by all current and future students, faculty, staff, and other constituents. 
1.3 Student, faculty and staff access to inclusive educational opportunities is one of 
the District/Colleges’ highest priorities and requires a community of stakeholders 
to design, monitor, and uphold accessible practices. Offices across all Colleges 
must work collaboratively to provide an environment that protects the rights and 
dignity of students, faculty, and staff. 
2.0 Scope of the Policy  
2.1 This District Policy applies to all ICT used to conduct official District/College 
academic and business functions. Attached hereto is the District’s ICT Statement. 
[Appendix A] 
3.0 Definitions 
3.1 To make ICT “accessible” means to design the ICT to provide a person with a 
disability the opportunity to acquire the same information, engage in the same 
interactions, and enjoy the same services as a person without a disability in an 
equally effective and equally integrated manner, with substantially equivalent 
ease of use. A person with a disability must be able to obtain the information as 
fully, equally, and independently as a person without a disability. 
3.2 An “accessible institution” is one that is committed to the goal that all students, 
faculty, staff, and constituents can access the institution’s ICT. Specifically, they 
can perceive, understand, navigate, interact, and contribute to ICT because the 
content and content-creation tools have been proactively designed to be 
accessible. 
3.3  “Accommodation” is an alteration of environment, curriculum format, or 
equipment that allows an individual with a disability to gain access to content 
and/or complete assigned tasks. 
3.4 An “adopter” of ICT is the faculty, staff or administrator that chooses to use ICT 
in conjunction with official academic or business functions of the 
District/College. 
 

INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM Information and Communication Technology 
Accessibility 
P-7136 
Instructional Arrangements  2 of 3 
 
3.5 “Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)” refers to the Americans with 
Disabilities Act of 1990. 
3.6 “Disability Services and Program for Students (DSPS)” provides a variety of 
academic support services to students with disabilities. DSPS’s goal is to provide 
students the opportunity to participate fully in all aspects of College programs and 
activities through appropriate and reasonable accommodations. 
3.7 “Information and Communication Technology (ICT)” refers to any information 
technology, equipment, or interconnected system or subsystem of equipment for 
which the principal function is the creation, conversion, duplication, automatic 
acquisition, storage, analysis, evaluation, manipulation, management, movement, 
control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, reception, or broadcast of 
data or information. Examples of ICT are electronic content, telecommunications 
products, computers and ancillary equipment, software, information kiosks and 
transaction machines, videos, IT services, and multi-function office machines 
which copy, scan, and fax documents.  
3.8 “Legacy ICT” is ICT created prior to the adoption of this policy that is not 
currently accessible. 
3.9 “Remediation” refers to the process of making legacy ICT accessible. A 
remediation plan is one that successfully modifies legacy ICT (document, 
website, etc.) so that it is accessible over a period of time. 
3.10 “Section 504” is a part of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 that prohibits 
discrimination based upon disability. 
3.11 “Section 508” A part of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 that governs accessibility 
of information technology (IT) in the Federal government, and in any state or 
locality that accepts federal funding. 
3.12  “WCAG 2.0” or Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0 defines how 
to make Web content more accessible to people with disabilities. Accessibility 
involves a wide range of disabilities, including visual, auditory, physical, speech, 
cognitive, language, learning, and neurological disabilities. 
4.0 Standard and Guidelines 
4.1 The District/Colleges shall adhere to the following standards and guidelines 
related to accessibility of ICT: 
4.1.1 Sections 504 and 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973; 
4.1.2 Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act; 
4.1.3 Accessibility standards described in the Web Content Accessibility 
Guidelines (WCAG), version 2.0, levels A and AA, or the most current 
version approved by the Vice Chancellor of Education and Technology.  

INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM Information and Communication Technology 
Accessibility 
P-7136 
Instructional Arrangements  3 of 3 
 
5.0 Accommodations 
5.1 Student requests for accommodations regarding ICT or legacy ICT shall be 
resolved by the DSPS offices.  
5.2 Appeals of student requests for accommodations shall be resolved pursuant to 
Administrative Regulation 2731. 
5.3 Appeals of faculty, staff or public requests for accommodation shall be resolved 
by the College’s 504 Officer in consultation with Human Resources. 
6.0 Selection of ICT 
6.1 Within 36 months of the adoption of this policy, all new (i.e. non-existent until 
after this policy was adopted) or redeveloped (i.e. existing before this policy was 
adopted but substantially changed in terms of functionality or structure after the 
policy was adopted) ICT shall be made accessible unless to do so places an undue 
burden on the District/College, or to do so will fundamentally alter the nature of 
the educational program or service. 
6.2 The District Policy for faculty selection of textbooks and academic materials for 
courses are set forth in District Policy and Administrative Regulation 7134, 
however, faculty adopters of ICT shall select ICT that is accessible, unless to do 
so places an undue burden on the District/College, or to do so will fundamentally 
alter the nature of the educational program or service. 
6.3 The District/Colleges shall make ICT accessible in a timely manner and in such a 
way as to protect the privacy and independence of persons with disabilities. 
6.4 Upon request by a qualified person with a disability, legacy ICT shall be made 
accessible unless to do so constitutes an undue burden on the District/Colleges or 
results in fundamental alterations of the educational programs or services of the 
District/Colleges. 
6.5 Where ICT is identified that is not accessible, the District/College shall promptly 
render the ICT accessible unless to do so constitutes an undue burden on the 
District/Colleges or results in fundamental alterations of the educational programs 
or services of the District/Colleges. 
6.6 Where ICT cannot be made accessible, the District/Colleges shall provide equally 
effective alternative access to the student, faculty, staff or administrator. 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 10/16/19 
Policy Revised:  
Policy Reviewed:  
Adm. Regulation: