EMPLOYER-MANAGEMENT/ 
CONFIDENTIAL EMPLOYEE RELATIONS 
Counseling Memo/Letter of 
Reprimand 
R-9322 
Problem Resolution 1 of 2 
 
1.0 Contents of a Counseling Memo or Letter of Reprimand 
1.1 The counseling memo or letter of reprimand shall clearly define the specific 
violation or area of unsatisfactory performance and the steps which must be taken 
for improvement. The statement shall contain the following information: 
1.1.1 An itemized description giving date, time and nature of violations along 
with applicable rules and regulations. 
1.1.2 The possible consequences of the employee's action, if improvement does 
not occur. 
1.1.3 Steps which must be taken for improvement. 
2.0 Procedure for Counseling Memo or Letter of Reprimand 
2.1 Counseling memos and letters of reprimand may be prepared on standard forms 
available in Personnel Services. If a standard form is not used, letters of 
reprimand shall be marked clearly to identify it as such and shall contain the 
information delineated under Section 1.1. 
2.2 The immediate supervisor shall discuss with the employee the contents of the 
counseling memo or letter of reprimand and shall outline requirements for the 
employee's attaining an acceptable standard of performance. 
2.3 Copies of the counseling memos are to be provided to the employee and the next 
higher level of administrative authority. Letters of reprimand shall also be 
provided to Personnel Services for inclusion in the employee's personnel file. Any 
written comments regarding the letter of reprimand by the employee are to be 
included in the employee's personnel file. 
3.0 Appeal 
3.1 If a manager wishes to appeal a letter of reprimand, the individual may do so by 
delivering to the Director, Personnel Services, within five (5) days of receipt, a 
written statement describing the objections. The Director, Personnel Services, 
shall investigate the action and determine whether the action should be sustained, 
modified or reversed. The decision of the Director, Personnel Services, shall be 
final. There shall be no appeal of a counseling memo. 
3.2 The Chancellor may request a meeting with the affected employee. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 10/26/98 
Adm. Regulation Revised:  
Adm. Regulation Reviewed:  
Board Policy: P-9322 

EMPLOYER-MANAGEMENT/ 
CONFIDENTIAL EMPLOYEE RELATIONS 
Counseling Memo/Letter of 
Reprimand 
R-9322 
Problem Resolution 2 of 2