DISTRICT PROGRAMS IN THE COMMUNITY 
 
Programs   R-1511 
Community Education 1 of 4 
 
1.0  Responsibility for Programs 
1.1 The designated District manager and the designated campus deans in charge of 
community services will serve as a council to develop and coordinate overall 
plans for providing community service offerings to the residents of the Los Rios 
District. 
1.1.1 The council will be responsible to plan a balanced and coordinated self-
supporting program for the entire District taking into consideration the 
offerings of other local educational and community agencies. 
• Pursuant to the missions and goals of the District, the council's 
planning may incorporate the following: 
• Cultural activities that may be made available to the public; 
• Lecture series;  
• Community Services classes;  
• Seminars and workshops to promote training for licensure and/or 
job upgrading;  
• Recreational activities;  
• Fundraising activities to augment the community services funds;  
• Travel tours.  
1.2 Following the development of a general plan for each semester's operations, the 
college deans have the responsibility for the implementation of the plan on the 
individual campuses. 
1.3 The college presidents will designate individual managers and establish 
procedures to provide clear-cut channels of responsibility for contracted 
educational services with outside agencies to prevent duplication of efforts 
between instructional and community services operations. 
2.0 Community Services Travel Tours 
2.1 The Community Services Offices may sponsor travel and field study tours subject 
to the following conditions: 
2.1.1 Travel arrangements will be professionally and carefully planned and 
coordinated. Although there may be occasions when the experience of a 
staff member may be adequate to insure efficient handling of travel 
logistics, it is expected that a professional travel agent or agency will be 
used. (See District's Travel Agency Agreement). 

DISTRICT PROGRAMS IN THE COMMUNITY 
 
Programs   R-1511 
Community Education 2 of 4 
 
2.1.2 Transportation other than by District vehicles will be with 
licensed/authorized carriers operating under all pertinent state and federal 
regulations. 
2.1.2.1 Carriers must have on file a certificate of insurance indicating a 
minimum of one million dollars ($1,000,000) liability coverage 
with the District named as additional insured. 
2.1.3 For all tours that require the services of a travel agency, the college must 
have prior to the trip an approved contract and certificate of insurance on 
file in the District Office with the travel agency.  
2.1.3.1 The travel agent must provide the following insurance coverage: 
• Travel agent's professional liability and comprehensive general 
liability with minimum limits of $1,000,000 bodily injury and 
$100,000 property damage with the District named as additional 
insured;  
• Comprehensive automobile liability if agency providing 
transportation.  
2.1.3.2 Appropriate travel accident/illness coverage should be provided or 
available to travel participants or appropriate waivers and release 
of liabilities should be obtained from participants. 
2.1.3.3 Each participant in a travel tour must sign the District's Release 
and Agreement to Hold Harmless and Indemnify form before 
commencement of the tour. 
2.1.4 A fee to cover administrative costs will be charged participants on the 
basis of the time and services provided by the District and the college 
community services office. 
2.1.4.1 Monies collected shall be deposited in the District's funds to the 
credit of the college community services account. 
3.0 Publicity and Announcements 
3.1 Publicity and announcements pertaining to community services activities shall be 
the responsibility of the appropriate campus dean working cooperatively with the 
campus public information officer. 
4.0 Budgeting for Community Services 
4.1 The community services operations of the District shall cover the cost of the 
following: 
4.1.1 Salaries of instructors and related fringe benefits. 

DISTRICT PROGRAMS IN THE COMMUNITY 
 
Programs   R-1511 
Community Education 3 of 4 
 
4.1.2 Supplies and equipment.  
4.1.3 Pro rata share (based on usage) of repair and amortization of equipment 
assigned to other college programs. 
4.1.4 Cost associated with community services publicizing such community 
service activities, such as advertisements, duplicating costs, and a pro rata 
share of class schedule costs, if applicable. 
4.1.5 Facility rental fees per established rates per Regulation (R-1412). 
4.1.6 Salaries and related fringe benefits of college community services deans 
and regular clerical staff involved in community services activities. 
4.1.7 Proration of college utility costs relating to community service activities. 
Utility costs allocated within a fiscal year will be determined with the 
adoption of that year's budget. 
4.2 Revenues from the following activities will be credited to the community services' 
accounts: 
4.2.1 Community Services fee activities. 
4.2.2 Swim programs. 
4.2.3 Facility rentals per Regulation (R-1412). 
4.2.4 Other appropriate activities. 
4.3 At the end of each fiscal year, excess revenues over expenditures by college shall 
be determined. Any excess revenues over expenditures by college shall be 
determined. Any excess revenues over expenditures shall be carried over to the 
next fiscal year for future community service activities or projects. Any excess 
expenditures over revenue shall be a charge against the next year's community 
service budget. The Chancellor and the College President will confer as to 
appropriate remedies to be taken to reverse the deficit. 
4.4 Funds received and expended for district wide community service programs for 
which all colleges have participated in the planning/implementation, will be 
divided among the colleges on the basis of an equitable allocation method. 
5.0 Community Services Contract Services 
5.1 Contracted community services without outside agencies or entities will be 
subject to the following: 
5.1.1 Charges for indirect cost factors according to established district 
guidelines. The District shall receive its appropriate its appropriate share 
of these indirect costs for contract negotiation and accounting. 

DISTRICT PROGRAMS IN THE COMMUNITY 
 
Programs   R-1511 
Community Education 4 of 4 
 
5.1.2 Review of all contracts by appropriate District legal and fiscal personnel. 
6.0 Fees for Community Services Activities 
6.1 The minimum fee charged participants shall be determined by considering all 
costs divided by the estimated number of participants. 
6.2 Competitive charges may be made for fundraising activities. 
7.0 Instructor Selection and Compensation 
7.1 Criteria used in the selection of an activity leader or instructor will be the same as 
those used in the selection of any staff member who represents the college to the 
community. 
7.2 The salary payment will be on the basis of guidelines established by the 
Chancellor and approved by the Board. 
7.2.1 The guidelines will provide for a sliding scale with consideration given to 
the nature of the community services offering and the expertise and 
eminence of the individuals employed. 
7.3 Upon the selection of instructors, the college will submit the appropriate form 
(ESA or PSA) to the District Business Office for payroll processing. 
8.0 Periodic and Annual Reports 
8.1 It shall be the responsibility of each College President to keep the Chancellor 
fully informed regarding community services programs and activities. 
8.2 Any reports to the Board of Trustees regarding community service activities shall 
be scheduled as needed. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 7/5/72 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 3/20/74; 11/5/80; 5/20/81; 6/6/83; 1/15/85; 1/2/90; 4/19/95 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed:  
Board Policy: P-1511