ADMISSIONS AND RECORDS 
 
Special Admit Students 
and Dual Enrollment   
R-2212 
Enrollment 1 of 8 
 
1.0 Purpose 
1.1 These regulations shall apply to the admission and enrollment of students who have 
applied to and have been recommended for admission to a community college pursuant to 
Education Code sections 48800, 48800.5, or 52620 inclusive of students attending high 
school, and students attending adult school, and other students whom Colleges in the Los Rios 
Community College District may admit as special part-time or special full-time students. 
 
 
1.1.1 Special Admit students shall not be enrolled in courses where their safety or the safety 
of others may be jeopardized.  Los Rios may set course-level enrollment limitations 
based on student age, grade level completed, or other factors as permitted by 
education code and title 5 to ensure student safety. 
 
1.1.2 College coursework may include material of an adult/mature level, irrespective of the 
age of the student. Faculty will not be expected to alter or adapt the approved course 
material for a younger audience. 
 
1.1.3 All college students, including Special Admit students, shall be informed of their 
student rights and responsibilities and are expected to advocate for themselves and 
be responsible for their work and behavior.  
 
2.0 Definitions  
2.1 The Los Rios Community College District recognizes the following as definitions 
within this regulation: 
2.1.1 Special Admit Student: A special admit student is an admitted special 
part-time or special full-time student who is eligible to attend community 
college pursuant to Education Code section 48800, 48800.5, or 52620. 
(Education Code 76001(a)) 
2.1.2 Special Part-Time Student: A special part time student is an admitted 
student who has been recommended for special-part time attendance under 
Education Code section 48800, 48800.5, or 52620. Special part-time 
students are limited to enrolling in a maximum of eleven (11) units in a 
term and may enroll in any course for which the student has met properly 
established enrollment limitations and requisites.  Special Part-Time 
enrollment under a College and Career Access Pathway (CCAP) program 
up to fifteen (15) units, in four or fewer community college courses, in a 
term may be allowed providing the enrollment is required under the CCAP 
course agreement for which the student is participating. 
2.1.3 Special Full-Time Student: A special full-time student is an admitted 
student who has been recommended for special full-time attendance under 
Education Code section 48800.5. Special full-time students may enroll in 
any course for which the student has met properly established enrollment 

ADMISSIONS AND RECORDS 
 
Special Admit Students 
and Dual Enrollment   
R-2212 
Enrollment 2 of 8 
 
limitations and requisites and are exempted from mandatory secondary 
school attendance.  
2.1.4 Dual Enrollment: Dual enrollment refers to opportunities for high school 
or adult school students, or other eligible students, to enroll in community 
college courses as a special admit student and receive college credit via 
enrollment for which the student’s high school or adult school may also 
award credit. 
2.1.5 College and Career Access Pathways (CCAP) Dual Enrollment: CCAP 
Dual Enrollment describes dual enrollment opportunities created by the 
passage of AB288 whereupon Community College Districts enter into 
partnerships with public school districts to offer dual credit opportunities 
that promote seamless pathways from high school to community college 
for career technical education or preparation for transfer, improving high 
school graduation rates, or helping high school students achieve college 
and career readiness. 
2.1.6 Non-CCAP Dual Enrollment: Non-CCAP Dual Enrollment refers to dual 
enrollment in courses not affiliated with a College and Career Access 
Pathways agreement; this may include Concurrent Enrollment, Middle 
College High School, Early College High School, and Adult Dual 
Enrollment programs. 
2.1.7 Middle College High School: Middle College High School programs are 
secondary schools located on a college campus and offer programs 
designed to serve at-risk high school students who are performing below 
their academic potential.  The goal of the middle college high school is to 
select at-risk high school students who are performing below their 
academic potential and place them in an alternative high school located on 
a community college campus in order to reduce the likelihood that they 
will drop out of school before graduation. 
2.1.8 Early College High School: Early College High Schools are innovative 
partnerships between charter or non-charter public secondary schools and 
a local community college that allow students to earn a high school 
diploma and up to two years of college credit in four years or less.  Early 
college high schools are small, autonomous schools that blend high school 
and college into a coherent educational program. Students begin taking 
college courses as soon as they demonstrate readiness and the college 
credit earned may be applied toward completing an associate degree, 
transfer to a four-year university, or obtaining a certificate of achievement. 
(Ed. Code, § 11302). 
2.1.9 Adult Dual Enrollment: Adult Dual Enrollment shall describe dual 
enrollment opportunities for special part-time adult students recommended 
for enrollment at the community college by an adult school pursuant to 

ADMISSIONS AND RECORDS 
 
Special Admit Students 
and Dual Enrollment   
R-2212 
Enrollment 3 of 8 
 
Education Code 52620.  Students enrolled under these provisions are not 
eligible for CCAP Dual Enrollment.  
 
3.0 Admission of Special Admit Students 
This section shall provide administrative procedures for admitting special admit students as 
special part-time or special full- time students inclusive of all students intending to pursue 
CCAP and non-CCAP special admit enrollment opportunities offered within the District. 
3.1 Admission of Special Part-Time Students Enrolled in High School or Adult School: 
to be considered for admission as a special part-time student, the student must meet 
the eligibility standards as established in Education Code Sections 48800, 48800.5, 
or 52620 and 76001 and provide the following to the College Admissions Office: 
  
a. A completed District application for admission to the college for the first term 
in which enrollment will be requested; after a student is admitted, an application 
will only be required where a student has discontinued enrollment for one 
primary term, or upon termination of special admit status upon exiting high 
school or adult school. 
i. Students continuing as special admit students must complete a 
supplemental enrollment application each term in which they plan to 
enroll. 
b. A completed District Special Admit form shall be required for the first term in 
which enrollment will be requested; Summer District Special Admit form shall 
be required for high school students requesting Summer enrollment.  Both 
forms will include: 
i. Consent of the student’s parent or legal guardian shall be required for 
students attending high school regardless of student age. 
ii. A signed recommendation of the applicant’s school principal or 
designee, or adult school administrator, at the school in which the 
student is enrolled.   
1. For high school students, this recommendation shall include 
certification that the high school has determined the student will 
benefit from college level instruction. 
2. In summer terms, the high school principal or designee shall certify 
the student has demonstrated adequate preparation for the topic to 
be studied and has exhausted attempts to enroll in equivalent 

ADMISSIONS AND RECORDS 
 
Special Admit Students 
and Dual Enrollment   
R-2212 
Enrollment 4 of 8 
 
coursework, as determined by the high school, at the student’s high 
school.  
3. In summer terms, the high school principal or designee shall certify 
that no more than the equivalent of five percent (5%) of the student’s 
previous grade level have been recommended for summer 
enrollment at the college. 
iii. Documentation, which may include self-certification or certification by 
the recommending educational institution, the student will be at least 
fourteen (14) years of age or have started the ninth (9th) grade by the 
first day of instruction in the application term. 
iv. For students currently enrolled in a homeschool program unaffiliated 
with a public school district, a copy of the private school affidavit 
associated with the homeschool shall be required. 
3.2 Admission of Special Full -Time Students Enrolled in Public Primary or S econdary 
School: to be considered for admittance as a special full-time student, the student must 
meet the eligibility standards as established in Education Code Section 48800.5. 
a. The parent or legal guardian must provide documentation they have 
successfully petitioned the governing board of the school district in which the 
student is enrolled to authorize the attendance of the student at a community 
college as a special full -time student on the grounds that the student would 
benefit from advanced scholastic or vocational work that would be available at 
the community college. 
b. A completed District application for admission to the college for the first term 
in which enrollment will be requested; after a student is admitted, an application 
will only be required where a student has discontinued enrollment for one 
primary term, or upon termination of special admit status upon exiting high 
school or adult school. 
i. Students continuing as special admit students must complete a 
supplemental enrollment application each t erm in which they plan to 
enroll. 
c. A completed District Special Admit form shall be required for the first term in 
which enrollment will be requested. This form will include: 
i. Consent of the student’s parent or legal guardian shall be required for 
students attending high school regardless of student age. 

ADMISSIONS AND RECORDS 
 
Special Admit Students 
and Dual Enrollment   
R-2212 
Enrollment 5 of 8 
 
ii. A signed recommendation of the applicant’s school principal or 
designee.   
3.3 Admission of Other Special Part-Time or Special Full-Time Students 
Parents of prospective special admit students who are not eligible for admission under 
provisions 3.1 or 3.2, including students who are not enrolled in public or private 
schools, including homeschool, or students who will not be fourteen (14) or have 
entered the ninth (9th) grade by the first day of instruction in the application term, may 
alternatively petition the college for admission as special part-time or special full-time 
students by providing the following to the College Admissions Office: 
 
a. A written statement from the parent(s) or legal guardian(s) of th e student 
explaining why the student is ineligible for admission under provisions 3.1 and 
3.2, how the student has demonstrated readiness for college -level instruction, 
and shall clearly state whether special part -time or special full- time status is 
being requested. 
b. A completed District application for admission to the college for the first term 
in which enrollment will be requested; after a student is admitted, an application 
will only be required where a student has discontinued enrollment for one 
primary term, or upon termination of special admit status upon exiting high 
school or adult school. 
i. Students continuing as special admit students must complete a 
supplemental enrollment application each term in which they plan to 
enroll. 
c. If the student is attending a public or private school, including homeschool, a 
completed District Special Admit form shall be required for the first term in 
which enrollment will be requested. This form will include: 
i. Consent of the student’s parent or legal guardian shall be required for 
students attending high school regardless of student age. 
ii. A signed recommendation of the applicant’s school principal or 
designee.  
iii. For students currently enrolled in a homeschool program unaffiliated 
with a public school district, a copy of the private school affidavit 
associated with the homeschool shall be required. 
3.4  Determination of Admission 

ADMISSIONS AND RECORDS 
 
Special Admit Students 
and Dual Enrollment   
R-2212 
Enrollment 6 of 8 
 
a. Education code sections 48800, 48800.5, and 52620 place the responsibility of 
determining a student’s ability to benefit from college level instruction on the 
school designee or parent making the recommendation that the student attend 
community college as a special part-time or special full-time student.   
b. Admissions determinations will be based on demonstration the applicant meets 
the eligibility criteria established in these administrative regulations and 
applicable state regulations including Education Code sections 48800, 48800.5, 
52620, 76001, and 76002. 
c. Students will be notified of an admissions determination in writing within seven 
(7) working days of submission of all application materials. In the event, 
admission is denied, the student shall be noti fied of the reason for this 
determination and provided instruction on the appeal process. 
3.5 Denial of Admission and Appeal 
a. A prospective special admit student may appeal the denial of admission to the 
College President or their designee.   
i. The appeal will be reviewed by the College President or their designee 
and a response provided within seven (7) working days. 
ii. The student may appeal the determination of the College President or 
their designee to the Los Rios Community College District Board of 
Trustees. 
b. If, after appealing to the Los Rios Community College District Board of 
Trustees, the prospective student is denied admission to the college, written 
findings and reasons for the denial will be recorded within 60 days.  The written 
recommendation and denial shall be issued at the next regularly scheduled 
board meeting that falls at least 30 days after the request has been submitted. 
4.0 Enrollment 
Special admit students may enroll in any course for which the student has satisfied 
applicable properly established enrollment requisites and limitations and may enroll during 
the assigned priority window for Special Admit as described in R-2211 and receive notation 
in the same manner as regularly admitted students with the following limitations: 
4.1 Special Admit Holds 
a. An enrollment hold will be placed upon special admit applicants at the time of 
application to prevent enrollment until an admission decision is reached.  The 
enrollment hold will be removed upon a student’s admission to the College 

ADMISSIONS AND RECORDS 
 
Special Admit Students 
and Dual Enrollment   
R-2212 
Enrollment 7 of 8 
 
based on a review of materials submitted with the District Special Admit form 
and/or petition by the parents of the student. 
b. Upon hold removal, admitted students may enroll in classes subject to their 
assigned enrollment appointment date using any means available to students 
within the District. 
4.2 CCAP Limitations 
a. Enrollment in CCAP courses will be limited to special part-time students for 
whom the participating high school has indicated an intent to enroll.  These 
enrollments may be entered by College personnel.   
 
4.3 Unit Limitations 
a. Special Part-Time students may enroll in no more than eleven (11) units in 
a term. 
b. Special Part-Time students enrolling in courses subject to a CCAP Course 
Agreement may enroll in up to fifteen (15) units, in a maximum of four 
classes, if required by the CCAP Course Agreement. 
c. Special Part-Time students participating in CCAP programs may enroll in 
non-CCAP courses, but may not enroll in more than eleven (11) units of 
combined CCAP and non-CCAP programming. 
d. Special Full-Time students share the maximum unit load of regularly 
admitted students as described in R-7211. 
4.4 Enrollment Requisites and Placement 
a. Special admit students must satisfy properly established enrollment requisites 
to enroll in courses in which the enrollment requisites apply. 
b. Special admit students may use any means available to regularly admitted 
students to satisfy enrollment requisites, including placement as prescribed by 
the college in which the student is seeking enrollment. 
c. Special admit students who are enrolled, or have recently been enrolled, in 
primary, secondary, or adult school may be asked to provide transcripts of prior 
coursework to support placement. 

ADMISSIONS AND RECORDS 
 
Special Admit Students 
and Dual Enrollment   
R-2212 
Enrollment 8 of 8 
 
5.0 Student Records 
5.1 The District shall record on the special admit student’s college transcript the 
courses, grading notation, and units earned in which the student has enrolled and 
attended beyond the last date to drop without notation.  
5.2 Board policy prohibits the release of student records without the written consent 
of the student regardless of student age.  
6.0 Fees 
6.1 Special Admit students will be assessed fees in accordance with existing policies 
and regulations. 
6.2 CCAP participating special part-time students enrolling exclusively in courses 
subject to a CCAP agreement shall be exempt from the student representation fee. 
6.3 CCAP participating special part-time students shall not be assessed instructional 
material fees, laboratory fees, universal transit pass fee, or any other fee 
prohibited by Education Code section 49011 when enrolling in courses subject to 
a CCAP agreement. 
7.0 Documentation Standards 
7.1 Records shall be retained in paper or electronic format for three (3) years from the 
last date of coursework. If the student does not complete coursework (does not 
enroll or drops the course), records shall be retained for three (3) years from 
application date.  
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 12/12/22 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 12/12/22 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed:  
Board Policy: P-2212