FINANCIAL AIDS AND EMPLOYMENT 
 
Eligibility, Selection and 
Appointment: Student 
Employees 
R-2631 
Student Employment 1 of 3 
 
1.0 Categories of Student Employment 
1.1 Work study employment is a form of financial aid available only to those students 
deemed eligible by a College Office of Financial Aid. 
1.2 Student help employment is available to all students who meet the criteria set 
forth in this regulation. 
1.3 CalWORKS Work-Study Program employment is available to eligible recipients 
of Temporary Aid to Needy Families (TANF). 
1.4 Unless otherwise specified, these regulations shall apply to all student employees. 
2.0 Eligibility 
2.1 Student employees must maintain at least six (6) credit hours of study during a 
semester, or if working between semesters, during the semester immediately 
preceding or following the intersession. 
3.0 Limitations on Employment 
3.1 A student shall be employed for no more than twenty-six (26) hours per week 
during a semester and no more than forty (40) hours per week between semesters. 
4.0 Job Qualifications 
4.1 Student employees must be able to perform the essential functions of the position 
with or without reasonable accommodation. 
5.0 Criminal Background Check 
5.1 Each College and the Los Rios Community College District Office shall establish 
a list of departments or assignments where student employment requirements 
include a criminal background check. These departments or assignments shall 
include the Child Care/Early Child Development Centers and may include other 
assignments that include the handling of cash or access to sensitive data. 
5.2 Applicants for student employment covered by section 5.1 shall be fingerprinted 
at the State Department of Justice or other qualified law enforcement agency.  
5.2.1 For assignments with the Child Care/Early Child Development Centers, 
both Department of Justice and Federal Bureau of Investigation 
background checks shall be required and must be completed prior to 
employment.  
5.2.2 For all other assignments, employment may commence immediately after 
fingerprinting even if prior to clearance being obtained by Human 
Resources.  

FINANCIAL AIDS AND EMPLOYMENT 
 
Eligibility, Selection and 
Appointment: Student 
Employees 
R-2631 
Student Employment 2 of 3 
 
5.3 Applicants for student employment covered by section 5.1 shall not be required to 
pay for fingerprinting.  
5.3.1 For assignments with the Child Care/Early Child Development Centers, 
the District shall pay the costs of fingerprinting and processing. For these 
assignments, if the District desires an expedited process, the District shall 
pay the cost of the expedited process.  
5.3.2 For all other assignments, the College shall pay the costs of fingerprinting 
and processing. For these assignments, if the College desires an expedited 
process, the College shall pay the cost of the expedited process.  
5.4 A student employee shall be disqualified to work in any of the assignments 
identified in section 5.1 for any of the following reasons:  
5.4.1 Conviction of a misdemeanor involving sex offenses, controlled or illegal 
substances as defined in Education Code sections 87010 and 87011, 
respectively, or of any felony, or a determination that the individual is a 
sexual psychopath (Ed. Code §88023) 
5.4.1.1 Exception: Applicants having official certificates of five-year 
rehabilitation from controlled or illegal substances convictions 
may be considered for employment. (Education Code § 88022) 
5.5 A student who is disqualified from employment under section 5.4 may receive an 
alternate assignment in a department or assignment other than those identified by 
the College or District pursuant to section 5.1.  
5.6 Police records shall be shown only to those with the legal right to see them.  
6.0 Job Rights and Benefits for Student Employees 
6.1 Student employees shall not establish permanence with the District and may be 
terminated at any time with or without cause.  
6.2 Student employees shall not be entitled to receive District benefits. 
7.0 Supervision 
7.1 Any District employee may supervise a student employee. 
7.2 Termination of a student employee shall be approved by a supervisor or manager. 
8.0 Discrimination/Sexual Harassment 
8.1 Employment policies protecting classified employees from unlawful 
discrimination and sexual harassment shall be applicable to employees. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 10/26/98 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 11/26/01; 11/17/08 

FINANCIAL AIDS AND EMPLOYMENT 
 
Eligibility, Selection and 
Appointment: Student 
Employees 
R-2631 
Student Employment 3 of 3 
 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed:  
Board Policy: P-2631