ADMINISTRATIVE COMPUTER USE 
 
Purpose and Definitions R-8811 
Purpose and Definitions  1 of 2 
 
1.0 Definitions 
1.1 For the purpose of these Los Rios Community College District Policies and 
Administrative Regulations, terms shall be defined as follows: 
1.1.1 “Access” means to gain entry to, instruct, or communicate with the 
logical, arithmetical, or memo function resources of a computer, computer 
system, or computer network. 
1.1.2 “Administrative Computing” means all computer equipment, software, 
services, policies, and procedures which are in place to support all 
computing except direct instructional use (classroom, video, Internet, or 
other methods). Administrative Computing includes, but is not limited to 
systems which serve the following functions, internal 
Business/Accounting, Human Resources/Personnel, Student 
Administration/Records, electronic-mail/calendaring, general 
Internet/intranet use, Desktop office systems, file sharing/printing, and all 
other general productivity systems. Participation in Administrative 
Computing systems is applicable to Los Rios Management, Faculty, 
Classified Staff, Students, Contractors, and Consultants.  
1.1.3 “Administrator” means a District employee, or a contractor or vendor 
authorized by a District employee to provide access to the Systems. 
1.1.4 “Computer contaminant” means any set of computer instructions that are 
designed to modify, damage, destroy, record, or transmit information 
within a computer, computer system, or computer network without the 
intent or permission of the owner of the information. They include, but are 
not limited to, a group of computer instructions commonly called viruses 
or worms, which are self-replicating or self-propagating and are designed 
to contaminate other computer programs or computer data, consume 
computer resources, bypass security programs, modify, destroy, record, or 
transmit data, or in some other fashion alter the normal operation of the 
computer, computer system, or computer network. 
1.1.5 “Computer network” means any system which provides communications 
between one or more computer systems and input/output devices 
including, but not limited to, personal computers, servers, display 
terminals and printers. 
1.1.6 “Computer program or software” means a set of instructions or statements, 
and related data, that when executed in actual or modified form, cause a 
computer, computer system or computer network to perform specified 
functions. 
1.1.7 “Computer services” includes, but is not limited to, computer time, data 
processing, or storage functions, or other uses of a computer, computer 
system, or computer network. 

ADMINISTRATIVE COMPUTER USE 
 
Purpose and Definitions R-8811 
Purpose and Definitions  2 of 2 
 
1.1.8 “Computer system” or “System” means any computers, network, and/or 
associated facilities which includes hardware, software, data stored or 
accessible electronically, and documents and manuals available to support 
the usage and/or operation and maintenance of the System leased or 
owned by the District and associated facilities, including those located on 
the college campuses, outreach centers, the District Office, Facilities 
Management, and other offsite facilities whether wholly or partly operated 
by the District, as a computer system designed, intended or used for 
administrative purposes. 
1.1.9 “Data” means a representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts, 
computer software, computer programs or instructions. Data may be in 
any form, in storage media, or as stored in the memory of the computer or 
in transit, or presented on a display device. 
1.1.10 “Injury” means any unauthorized alteration, deletion, damage or 
destruction of a computer system, computer network, computer program, 
or data caused by the access. 
1.1.11 “Supporting documentation” includes, but is not limited to, all 
information, in any form, pertaining to the design, construction, 
classification, implementation, use, or modification of a computer, 
computer system, computer network, computer program, or computer 
software, which information is not generally available to the public and is 
necessary for the operation of a computer, computer system, computer 
network, computer program, or computer software. 
1.1.12 “User” includes any District employee, student, contractor, vendor or 
other person who uses the Systems. 
1.1.13 “Victim expenditure” means any expenditure reasonably and necessarily 
incurred by the owner/lessee to verify that a computer system, computer 
network, computer program, or data was or was not altered, deleted, 
damaged, or destroyed by the access. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 1/24/00 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 9/27/10 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed:  
Board Policy: P-8811