FINANCIAL AIDS AND EMPLOYMENT 
 
Scholarships R-2622 
Student Services and Scholarships 1 of 2 
 
1.0 Availability of Scholarships  
1.1 Each College of the Los Rios Community College District shall maintain a 
directory of scholarships available to students including the following 
information: 
1.1.1 Sources of scholarships  
1.1.2 Qualifications for scholarships 
1.1.3 Types of scholarships 
2.0 External Scholarships 
2.1 External scholarships are scholarships awarded from funds not controlled by the 
Colleges or the District. 
2.2 To the extent possible, the colleges will maintain information relating to external 
scholarships. 
2.3 The Colleges and the District play no role in the awarding of scholarships from 
external funds. 
3.0 College and District Scholarships 
3.1 The Colleges and the District shall publicize the availability of scholarships. 
3.2 Scholarship applications will be available at each of the Colleges. 
3.3 Applications will clearly describe the qualifications, process and criteria for 
selection. 
3.4 Only those applicants who meet the minimum selection criteria shall be 
considered. 
3.5 Selection shall be made without regard to ethnic group identification, race, color, 
sex, gender, gender identity, gender expression, pregnancy or childbirth-related 
condition, sexual orientation, sexual identity, religion or religious creed, age (over 
forty), national origin, ancestry, physical or mental disability, medical condition, 
political affiliation or belief, military and veteran status, or marital status. 
3.6 Students shall be notified promptly regarding the award or denial of scholarship 
applications. 
4.0 Accounting for Scholarship Funds 
4.1 The Colleges and the District shall account for scholarship funds. 
4.2 The Colleges and the District shall prepare an annual scholarship report. 

FINANCIAL AIDS AND EMPLOYMENT 
 
Scholarships R-2622 
Student Services and Scholarships 2 of 2 
 
4.3 Information regarding the awarding of scholarships shall be provided to College 
Financial Aid Offices. 
5.0 Termination or Revocation of College and District Scholarships 
5.1 A scholarship may be terminated or revoked upon a determination that: 
5.1.1 The scholarship was awarded on the basis of incorrect, untruthful or 
fraudulent information. 
5.1.2 A recipient has failed to satisfy terms or conditions of the scholarship. 
5.2 A recipient may be required to reimburse the scholarship award.  
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 1/24/00 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 9/26/16 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 9/26/16 
Board Policy: P-2622