SAFETY AND SECURITY 
 
Campus Police and Safety 
Services 
R-8912 
Safety and Security 1 of 5 
 
1.0 Statement of Purpose 
This regulation is to ensure the application of community and evidence -based policing 
models, and effective faculty, staff, and student participation in the governance of public 
safety services, including campus policing and security. Public safety services must adhere 
to principles of diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility, and in particular advance 
access to education, educational equity, and opportunities for student success by creating 
safe, secure, peaceful, and inclusive campus environments in which all persons may fully 
develop their individual potential without fear or undue risk of physical or emotional harm. 
1.1 Definitions: 
1.1.1 Campus – Locations on or near the campus of the community college 
and on or near other grounds or properties owned, operated, controlled, 
or administered by a community college district or by the state acting on 
behalf of a community college. 
1.1.2 Campus police officer – A sworn peace officer employed by a campus 
police department, or by a local law enforcement agency, to provide 
public safety services on a community college campus. 
1.1.3 Campus security officer  – A person employed to provide security 
services as defined by Education Code section 72330.5, subdivision (c), 
on a community college campus. 
1.1.4 Campus police department  – A police department operated by a 
community college district pursuant to Education Code Section 72330. 
1.1.5 Campus Stakeholders  – Students, faculty, classified staff, and 
administrators, including public safety personnel. 
1.1.6 Commission – The Peace Officer Standards and Training Commission. 
1.1.7 Community policing  – A philosophy that involves three principal 
elements: 
1.1.7.1 Collaborative partnerships between police and those they serve 
to develop solutions to problems and increase trust in police; 
1.1.7.2 Organizational transformation to align management, structure, 
personnel, and data systems to support partnerships and 
proactive problem solving; and 
1.1.7.3 Proactive engagement and systematic examination of problems 
to develop and evaluate effective responses. 
1.1.8 District Public Safety Advisory Committee (Advisory Committee) – 
A committee formed by The Chancellor, or designee,  with 
representatives from all constituent groups tasked with developing a 
Public Safety Compact and monitoring progress of community policing 
principles, among other charges. 
1.1.9 Equity – The consistent and systematic fair, just, and impartial 
treatment of all individuals, including individuals who belong to 
underserved communities that have been denied such treatment. 

SAFETY AND SECURITY 
 
Campus Police and Safety 
Services 
R-8912 
Safety and Security 2 of 5 
 
1.1.10 Evidence-based policing  – An approach to the development of 
effective policing practices that involves ongoing evaluation of police 
agencies, units, and officers to connect the best available research to the 
implementation of public safety guidelines and practices to improve 
outcomes and to allow public safety agencies to move beyond reactive, 
response-driven approaches. 
1.1.11 Local law enforcement agency  – The city or county law enforcement 
agency with operational responsibility for police services in the 
community in which a campus is located. 
1.1.12 Public safety personnel  – Campus police and security officers, and 
other first responders, including mental health and social services 
workers, crisis counselors, dispatchers, and others employed to provide 
related services on a community college district campus , including 
related support staff. 
1.1.13 Public safety services  – Law enforcement, security, emergency 
response, mental health, social services, crisis counseling, and other 
related services. 
1.1.14 Sustained finding – A final determination by an investigative agency, 
commission, board, hearing officer, or arbitrator following an 
investigation and opportunity for an administrative appeal pursuant to 
Government Code Sections 3304 and 3304.5, or equivalent process, that 
the actions of a peace officer were found to violate law or department 
policy.  
1.1.15 Underserved communities  – Populations sharing a particular 
characteristic, as well as geographic communities, that have been 
systematically denied a full opportunity to participate in aspects of 
economic, educational, social, and civic life, such as Black, Latino, and 
indigenous and Native American persons, Asian Americans and Pacific 
Islanders, and other persons of color; members of religious minorities; 
lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, intersex, and asexual 
(LGBTQIA+) persons; persons with disa bilities; persons who live in 
rural areas; and persons otherwise adversely affected by persistent 
poverty or inequality. 
2.0 Campus Policing and Student Success 
2.1 Los Rios Police Department (LRPD) will adhere to the community policing principles 
and evidence-based policing practices. 
2.2 LRPD will have a “Public Safety Compact” developed with community college 
stakeholders, including LRPD sworn officers , that establishes the District’s 
requirements for the  delivery of public -safety related services on campus, 
including the respective roles and responsibilities of administrators, faculty, 
campus police, mental  health and social services workers, crisis counselors, 
community non-profits, and other  related service providers in responding to the 

SAFETY AND SECURITY 
 
Campus Police and Safety 
Services 
R-8912 
Safety and Security 3 of 5 
 
public safety needs of the campus. The compact will be posted or otherwise made 
available to the campus community. 
2.3 The Chancellor, or designee , shall form a District Public Safety Advisory 
Committee (Advisory Committee).  The Advisory Committee  may make 
recommendations to the Chancellor and Board related to District policies 
governing campus public safety services. 
2.3.1 Advisory Committee recommendations may relate to the following 
subject matter areas: budgets and fund allocations, governance, and 
public safety policies and  practices related to classroom response 
practices, complaints, investigations, crisis  response, detention, 
discipline, firearms, handcuffing, promotion, recruitment and hiring,  
restorative justice programs, retention, training, uniforms and attire, use 
of force, welfare checks, and other related subjects deemed appropriate 
by the Board or the Advisory Committee.  
2.3.2 Documents relevant to the development of recommendations by the 
District Advisory Committee  shall be disclosed and made available to 
interested parites . Advisory Committee recommendations shall be 
provided to The Chancellor, or designee,  and be reported to the Board 
at regularly noticed meetings. 
2.3.3 The Advisory Committee shall be composed of campus stakeholder 
representatives, and The Chancellor, or designee, shall engage in active 
efforts to recruit Advisory Committee members from  historically 
underserved groups.  
2.4 Public safety  personnel shall offer  contact information to individuals who are 
stopped or otherwise subject to a police officer-initiated interaction, in accordance 
with applicable laws, except where doing so would pose a safety risk;  
2.5 To further the development of evidence-based practices, the Advisory Committee 
shall develop a process to encourage individuals who have interacted with campus 
public safety personnel to submit to the  District a response related to the 
interaction. The process shall: 
2.5.1 solicit responses regarding the individual’s perception of the interaction 
and district’s public safety practices; 
2.5.2 provide to the Advisory Committee, an aggregated summary or 
otherwise anonymized version of the responses received; 
2.5.3 allow for the anonymous submission of responses; 
2.5.4 prohibit any retaliation against a responder, including a prohibition 
against the use of a response in any disciplinary proceeding against the 
responder; and 
2.5.5 provide an accessible method for all individuals to provide responses.  
2.6 The process described in section 2.5 above shall be separate from any disciplinary 
or personnel proceeding. Responses received and information gathered shall not be 
used in connection with any disciplinary proceeding against campus public safety 

SAFETY AND SECURITY 
 
Campus Police and Safety 
Services 
R-8912 
Safety and Security 4 of 5 
 
personnel, including a peace officer disciplinary proceeding under Penal Code 
832.5. Information, data, and records developed under this process shall not be 
maintained in any personnel file. 
3.0 Campus Police, Community Policing, and Evidence-Based Practices 
3.1 The LRPD and any local law enforcement agency that contracts with the District 
for public safety services , must participate in Commission programs. Campus 
police officers must be certified by the Commission. 
3.2 To support the development of community policing practices, the District shall: 
3.2.1 Require campus police and security officers to participate in regular 
training related to the conduct and methods of community policing, anti-
bias, cultural responsibility, conflict avoidance, and de-escalation; 
3.2.2 Provide campus police and security officers routine mental health 
services, and prompt referral to crisis counseling following any critical 
incident; 
3.2.3 Require in the hiring, retention, and promotion of campus police and 
security officers a demonstrated commitment to policing with a 
“guardian” rather than a “warrior” mindset; 
3.2.4 Prohibit the colleges or foundations from purchasing military 
equipment, unless authorized by the Board following standards required 
by law for the purchase of equipment for police agencies made with 
public funds; and  
3.2.5 Require campus police and security officers to attend and participate in 
campus activities not involving a “police response” or other formal 
public safety-related activities, such as participating in student events 
when invited, in town halls, convocations , and other similar events 
where informal or social interactions with other campus stakeholders is 
possible.  
3.3 To support the development of evidence -based practices, campus public safety 
services shall: 
3.3.1 Record policing data metrics, including key performance indicators; 
3.3.2 Track data related to traffic stops and other officer-initiated contacts, in 
accordance with applicable laws; and 
3.3.3 Conduct stakeholder climate surveys focused on campus public safety 
services. 
3.3.4 Be equipped with body cameras, which shall be recording throughout any 
policing response, including all calls for service. 
3.4 The Chancellor, or designee, shall: 
3.4.1 Publish the scope of the data and metrics required by section 3.3 and the 
timing and manner of their reporting; 

SAFETY AND SECURITY 
 
Campus Police and Safety 
Services 
R-8912 
Safety and Security 5 of 5 
 
3.4.2 Share development in policing practices, including innovations in 
technology; and 
3.4.3 Support the acquisition of equipment by the colleges to advance the 
purposes of this regulation. 
4.0 Employment of Campus Public Safety Personnel 
4.1 The employment of campus public safety personnel will be subject to statewide  
equal employment opportunity and District employment regulations. 
4.2 District recruiting materials must prominently indicate that applicants for a 
campus public safety personnel position will be required to demonstrate a 
commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion principals. The evaluation of public 
safety personnel during their term of employment shall include consideration of 
the employee’s commitment to these principles and to their contributions to 
student success. 
4.3 Applicants who obtain a degree in modern policing from a California community 
college shall receive a hiring preference over other similarly qualified applicants 
for a position as a campus police officer. 
4.4 Campus police and security officers shall receive community college -specific 
training as required by the law, and as made available by the Commission. The 
District shall make any campus climate and public safety trainings or materials 
developed by the California Community Colleges Chancellor’s Office available to 
its public safety personnel. 
4.5 The District shall not hire as a campus police officer an individual with any 
sustained finding related to moral turpitude, harassment, discrimination, 
retaliation, abuse of authority or power, excessive use of force, or other 
misconduct incompatible with the role of a campus police officer under the 
requirements of, and District policies and regulations. The District shall review 
records related to the current or prior employment of campus police and security 
officers to the full extent authorized by law. 
 
LRCCD 
Policy Adopted: 4/24/2023 
Policy Revised:  
Policy Reviewed:  
Board Policy: P-8912