INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM Credit for Prior Learning R-7137 
Instructional Arrangements  1 of 5 
 
1.0 Credit for Prior Learning  
1.1 Credit for prior learning is credit awarded for validated college-level skills and 
knowledge gained outside of a college classroom. 
1.2 Students may receive college credit for prior learning through the approved 
alternative methods listed below: 
1.2.1 Achievement of a satisfactory score on the College Board Advanced 
Placement (AP) examination. 
1.2.2 Achievement of a satisfactory score on a high- level International 
Baccalaureate (IB) examination. 
1.2.3 Achievement of a satisfactory score on the College Level Examination 
Program (CLEP). 
1.2.4 Evaluation of Joint Services Transcripts. 
1.2.5 Achievement of an examination administered by other agencies approved 
by the Los Rios Community College District. (C al. Code Regs., Tit. 5, § 
55050 subd. (c)). 
1.2.6 Evaluation of industry-recognized credentials. 
1.2.7 Evaluation of student-created portfolios. 
1.2.8 Satisfactory completion of an institutional examination administered by 
the college in lieu of completion of an active course listed in the current 
college catalog through a process called, “credit by exam.” 
1.3 Credit for prior learning does not include knowledge and skills already assessed 
and awarded credit through formal education at regionally accredited in-state and 
out-of-state institutions. 
2.0 Determination of Eligibility for Credit for Prior Learning 
2.1 The student must be in good standing in the District. 
2.2 The student must have previously earned credit from the District or be currently 
registered as a student. 
2.3 Current students must have an education plan on file.  
2.4 The course must be listed in the current College catalog. 
2.5 If seeking credit for a course through credit by exam, the student must be 
registered with the District and not currently enrolled in the course  or receiving 
credit for a more advanced course in the same subject. 
3.0 Prior Learning Assessment Grading Policy  

INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM Credit for Prior Learning R-7137 
Instructional Arrangements  2 of 5 
 
3.1 Grading shall be according to the procedures outlined in Board Policy and 
Administrative Regulation 7252 except that that students shall be offered a “pass-
no pass” option if that option is ordinarily available for the course.  
3.2 Students shall have an opportunity to accept, decline or appeal decisions related to 
the award of credit once per assessment requested pursuant to the procedures 
identified in Board Policy and Administrative Regulation 2412, and in cases of 
credit by exam, pursuant to California Code of Regulations, Title 5, sections 
55021 and 55025.  
4.0 Transcription of Credit for Prior Learning 
4.1 The student’s transcript shall be clearly annotated to reflect that credit was earned 
by assessment of prior learning. (Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 5, § 55050 subd. (f)). If 
credit is earned by a particular exam, see annotation procedures in sections 8.2 
and 9.4. (Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 5, § 55052.5). 
4.2 Upon request of an assessment of prior learning or review of an AP, IB Exam or 
CLEP, students shall be advised that transcription of credit for a college 
requirement may not transfer to the CSU or UC system. 
5.0 Applicability of Credit 
5.1 Units for which credit is given pursuant to the provisions of this section shall not 
be counted in determining the twelve (12) semester hours of credit in residence 
required for an associate degree. (Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 5, § 55050 subd. (h)). 
5.2 Upon assessment of a student’s mastery of a course’s learning outcomes, credit 
should be made, if possible, to Intersegmental General Education Transfer 
Curriculum (IGETC), California State University General Education (CSUGE) 
breadth, local community college program or General Education requirements, 
and, only as a last resort, electives credit. (Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 5, § 55050 subd. 
(d)). 
5.3 Students should be advised that some 4-year colleges and universities do not 
accept credit granted for prior learning. 
6.0 Automatic Referral for Credit for Prior Learning Assessment 
6.1 Upon completion of a student’s educational plan pursuant to California Education 
Code  §78212, a student shall be referred to the college’s appropriate authority for 
assessment of prior learning, if the student is a veteran or an active-duty member 
of the armed forces, holds industry-recognized credentials, or requests credit for a 
course based on their prior learning. 
7.0 American Council on Education (ACE) Credit Recommendation 
Consideration 

INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM Credit for Prior Learning R-7137 
Instructional Arrangements  3 of 5 
 
7.1 Decisions for granting credit for prior learning shall consider the credit 
recommendations of ACE, including ACE evaluated transcripts, experience, and 
training programs. 
8.0 AP Examination  
8.1 A student requesting credit for prior learning through an AP Examination must 
meet the general eligibility criteria in section 2.0 and the following.  
8.1.1 Official copies of the AP test scores are on file with the Admissions and 
Records Office. 
8.1.2 The student achieved a passing score on the college’s AP Credit Chart. 
8.2 The student’s transcript shall be clearly annotated to reflect the credit was earned 
through an AP exam. (Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 5, § 55052). 
9.0 High-Level IB Exam and CLEP 
9.1 A student requesting credit for prior learning through a High-Level IB 
Examination or CLEP must meet the general eligibility criteria in section 2.0 and 
the following.  
9.1.1 Official copies of the IB or CLEP test scores are on file with the 
Admissions and Records Office. 
9.1.2 The student achieved a passing score on the applicable college’s IB or 
CLEP Credit Chart. 
9.2 The faculty in the appropriate discipline shall have the authority to approve IB 
program examination and CLEP scores deemed to constitute satisfactory 
performance for direct course credit and/or general education area credit. 
9.3 Credit may be awarded for the California IGETC, CSUGE Breadth, or local 
community college general education requirements, as most appropriate. Where 
no direct course or general education area matches an IB or CLEP exam, the 
college may award elective credit.  
9.4 Credit earned through the IB Exam or CLEP shall be clearly annotated on the 
transcript to reflect that credit was earned through an IB exam or CLEP. (Cal. 
Code Regs., Tit. 5, § 55052.5). 
10.0 Credit for Military Service 
10.1 A military or veteran student requesting credit for prior learning through 
evaluation of the Joint Services Transcript containing courses that have been 
evaluated by the American Council of Education with full descriptions and credit 
recommendations must meet the general eligibility criteria in section 2.0 and the 
following.  
10.1.1  A completed petition for credit is on file. 

INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM Credit for Prior Learning R-7137 
Instructional Arrangements  4 of 5 
 
10.1.2  An official copy of the student’s Joint Services Transcript has been 
received by the college Admissions and Records Office. 
10.1.3  The colleges shall consider the credit recommendations of the American 
Council for Education pursuant to Education Code section 66025.71 and 
award course credit in courses with subject matter similar to that of the 
student’s military education, training, and service. 
10.2 A veteran student meeting the criteria in 10.1 may receive: 
10.2.1 Three (3) units of living skills credit toward graduation requirement. 
10.2.2 One (1) unit of elective credit. 
11.0 Industry-Recognized Credentials 
11.1 The determination to offer credit for industry-recognized credentials rests solely 
on the discretion of the discipline faculty. 
11.2 A student requesting credit for prior learning through evaluation of industry-
recognized credentials shall adhere to the following procedures and meet the 
general eligibility criteria in section 2.0 and the following.  
11.2.1 The student must submit a petition for evaluation of industry- recognized 
credentials to the discipline department chair or faculty designee. 
11.2.2 The student must provide the discipline department chair or faculty 
designee copies or documentation of the industry- recognized credentials 
that support the petition.  
11.2.3 The discipline faculty member shall evaluate the credentials against 
course content and student learning outcomes of current courses in the 
college catalog. 
11.2.4 If the discipline faculty member determines the industry -recognized 
credentials adequately measure mastery of the course content as set forth 
in the official course outline of record, the faculty member shall sign the 
petition and forward it and the backup documentation to the Admission 
and Records Office for transcription of credit. 
12.0 Assessment of Student-Created Portfolio 
12.1 The determination to offer credit by assessment of a student-created portfolio 
rests solely on the discretion of the discipline faculty. 
12.2 A student requesting credit for prior learning through assessment of a student-
created portfolio shall adhere to the following procedures and meet the general 
eligibility criteria in section 2.0 and the following.  
12.2.1 The student must submit a petition for evaluation of the student portfolio 
to the discipline department chair or faculty designee. 

INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM Credit for Prior Learning R-7137 
Instructional Arrangements  5 of 5 
 
12.2.2 The student must provide the discipline department chair or faculty 
designee with the student-created portfolio that supports the petition. 
12.2.3 The discipline faculty member shall evaluate the portfolio against course 
content and student learning outcomes of current courses in the C ollege 
catalog. 
12.2.4 If the discipline faculty member determines the portfolio contents 
adequately measure mastery of the course content as set forth in the 
official course outline of record, the faculty member shall sign the petition 
and forward it and the backup documentation to the Admission and 
Records Office for transcription of credit. 
13.0 Petitioning for Course Credit through Credit by Exam  
13.1 A student requesting credit for prior learning via credit by exam shall adhere to 
the following procedures and meet the general eligibility criteria in section 2.0. 
13.1.1 The determination to offer credit by examination rests solely on the 
discretion of the discipline faculty.  
13.1.2 A separate examination shall be conducted for each course for which 
credit is to be granted. 
13.1.3 A student must submit a petition to the discipline department chair or 
faculty designee for each course for which credit is sought.   
13.1.4 The examining faculty member shall determine the nature and content of 
the exam. (Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 5, § 55050 subd. (c). 
13.1.5 If the student completes the examination with a passing grade as 
determined by the examining faculty member, the examining faculty 
member shall sign the petition, indicating the grade for the course 
successfully challenged and forward it and the backup documentation to 
the Admission and Records Office for transcription of credit. 
13.1.6 A student may be charged a fee for credit by exam which shall not exceed 
the enrollment fee associated with the enrollment in the course for which 
the student seeks credit by examination. (Cal. Code Regs., Tit. 5, § 55050 
subd. (i)). 
14.0 Credit by Exam for High School Articulated Courses 
 Procedures for granting credit by exam through high school articulated courses shall be in 
accordance with R-7135.   
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 12/7/2020 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 9/25/23 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 9/25/23 
Board Policy: P-7137