STUDENT DEVELOPMENT 
 
Student Funds   R-2314 
Student Organizations and Activities 1 of 3 
 
1.0 Deposit or Investment of Student Funds (Ed. Code, §§ 76063 and 
76064) 
1.1 The funds of the student body associations, student organizations/clubs, and 
student trust funds (subject to terms of gift or bequest) shall be deposited or 
invested in the following ways: 
1.1.1 Deposits or investments in banks, savings and loan associations, or credit 
unions, insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, National 
Credit Union Administration, or a comparable agency as provided for by 
the Federal government. 
1.1.2 Purchase of United States Savings Bonds as authorized for investment by 
subdivision (a) of Section 16430 of the Government Code. 
1.1.3 Deposits or investments in a government-sponsored treasury or investment 
fund and other instruments as defined in the Los Rios Community College 
District investment policy. The purpose of such a fund shall be to realize 
maximum investment return consistent with safe and prudent money 
management. 
1.1.4 Loans, at interest, to any community college student body association 
and/or student organization/club established within the District for a 
period not to exceed three (3) years. 
1.1.5 Investments in permanent improvements to any community college district 
property including, but not limited to, buildings, automobile parking 
facilities, gymnasiums, swimming pools, stadia and playing fields, where 
such facilities, or portions thereof, are used for conducting student 
extracurricular activities or student spectator sports, or when such 
improvements are for the benefit of the student body. Such investment 
shall be made on condition that the principal amount of the investment 
plus a reasonable amount of interest thereon shall be returned to the 
student body association and/or student organization club, as appropriate, 
provided herein. Upon approving such an investment, there shall be 
established a special fund into which monies derived from the rental of 
District property to student body associations and student 
organizations/clubs shall be deposited. Monies shall be returned to the 
student body association and/or student organizations/clubs, as 
appropriate, as contemplated by this section exclusively from such special 
fund and only to the extent that there are monies in such special fund. 
Whenever there are no outstanding obligations against the special fund, by 
action of the Los Rios Community College District Board of Trustees, the 
fund may be dissolved and all monies therein may be transferred to the 
general fund of the District. 
1.2 The College Vice President of Student Services shall be the designated 
administrator responsible for the overall activities and functions pertaining to 

STUDENT DEVELOPMENT 
 
Student Funds   R-2314 
Student Organizations and Activities 2 of 3 
 
student body association, student organizations/clubs, and student trust funds. The 
Vice President of Administration shall determine and be responsible for trust fund 
investment portfolios for student body association, student organizations/clubs, 
and student trust funds. 
1.2.1 Considerations in determining the deposit/investment vehicles include, but 
are not limited to, the following: 
1.2.1.1 Preservation of student funds. Accomplished by insurance 
coverage, guaranteed investments, etc. 
1.2.1.2 Maximum return on investment, consistent with Section 1.2.1.1 
above. 
1.2.1.3 Services offered by the financial institution to the District and the 
students. 
1.2.1.3.1 District services include, but are not limited to, armored 
car service, interest-bearing savings accounts, etc. 
1.2.1.3.2 Student services include, but are not limited to, student 
support loans, scholarships, community support of 
student activities, etc. 
2.0 Expenditure of Student Funds (Ed. Code, § 76063) 
2.1 Funds of the student body association, student organizations/clubs, and student 
trust funds may be expended, upon the unanimous approval of the college Vice 
President of Administration, the faculty advisor or the Vice President of Student 
Services, and the president of the student body association or student 
organization/club, as appropriate. 
2.1.1 Student funds, except for student representation fees, may be expended   
where such expenditure is germane to the College’s educational mission. 
2.1.2 Student representation fees shall be expended to provide support for 
students or representatives who may wish to state their positions on 
matters affecting community colleges before governmental officials (Ed. 
Code, § 76060.5). 
2.2 The College Vice President of Administration shall be the designated trustee for 
gifts and bequests. The Board of Trustees’ approval must be obtained each time 
before any trust, gift, and bequest funds may be expended. 
2.3 Student fund bank accounts shall have the College Vice President of 
Administration, and designee, as account signatory. 

STUDENT DEVELOPMENT 
 
Student Funds   R-2314 
Student Organizations and Activities 3 of 3 
 
3.0 Supervision and Audit of Student Funds (Ed. Code, § 76065) 
3.1 The Board of Trustees shall provide for the supervision of all funds raised by any 
student body association or student organization/club using the name of the 
College. 
3.2 The cost of the supervision may constitute a proper charge against the funds of the 
District. 
3.3 The Board of Trustees may also provide for a continuing District audit of student 
funds. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 1/14/81 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 2/10/82; 5/28/91; 7/17/96; 9/28/15 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 9/28/15 
Board Policy: P-2314