BUDGET PLANNING AND ADMINISTRATION  
 
Budget Planning  R-8122 
Budget 1 of 5 
 
1.0 District Budget Committee 
1.1 A District budget committee shall participate in the budget planning process. The 
committee shall meet on a regular basis, but not less than twice a semester. 
1.2 The committee shall be composed of representatives from each College and the 
District office as follows: 
 No. of 
Representatives 
(1) Three District Office and/or facilities management 
representatives appointed by the Chancellor, 3 
(2) All College Presidents, or their designees, 4 
(3) District Academic Senate President, or his/her designee, 1 
(4) All College Academic Senate Presidents, or their designees, 4 
(5) An additional faculty member appointed by each College 
Academic Senate President, 4 
(6) All Classified Senate Presidents or designees appointed by 
the Classified Senate Presidents, and a classified 
representative representing District Office/facilities 
management, 
5 
(7) One representative (LRCEA, LRCFT, LRSA, SEIU, LRMA) 
appointed by the respective organization, 5 
(8) Student representative 1 
Total committee membership 27 
 
1.3 The committee will have an administrative co-chair appointed by the Chancellor 
and a faculty co-chair appointed by the District Academic Senate President. 
1.4 A member shall be appointed, if possible, to a minimum two year term. 
Membership period among the representatives shall be staggered in order to have 
some level of continuity among committee members each fiscal year. 
1.5 The District Budget Committee shall meet at such times and recommendations 
developed in a timely manner as to not impede District decision making activities. 
1.6 A College, at its option, may form a campus budget committee to provide 
recommendations to the College President regarding budget matters. 

BUDGET PLANNING AND ADMINISTRATION  
 
Budget Planning  R-8122 
Budget 2 of 5 
 
2.0 Committee Responsibilities: 
2.1 Committee responsibilities shall include the review and recommendations 
regarding District-wide processes related to budget development which may have 
a major impact on College operations or allocations. Any budget committee 
recommendations related to District-wide processes shall be advisory to the 
Chancellor. Committee discussions or review may include the following during 
any budget year: 
2.1.1 Review of current, projected or proposed State financing proposals 
affecting California community colleges and the related financial impact 
on the District. State funding formulas may also be reviewed and 
recommendations developed for changes to the State financing formulas 
for forwarding to the Los Rios Community College District Chancellor 
and/or Board of Trustees. 
2.1.2 Review of District budgetary practices and operational guidelines, as 
needed, to ensure that procedures are responsive to strategic priorities, are 
balanced across the District and protect the financial well being of the 
District. Union issues which are typically conducted as part of labor 
negotiations are not in the purview of this committee. 
2.1.3 Review of budget allocation formulas used to appropriate funds by 
College/center or site which are typically funded with General 
Purpose/unrestricted funds. 
2.1.3.1 The review of allocation formulas by committee members shall be 
performed at the District-wide level only. Any formulas or 
processes used by a College or site shall follow the budget 
planning process that is established for that site. 
2.1.3.2 Formula reviews at a District-wide level may also include 
categorical funds such as Matriculation, Staff Development or 
Telecom & Technology Infrastructure Program (TTIP) and 
designated funds such as Partnership for Excellence. 
2.1.4 Review of State capital outlay funding criteria and related facility 
utilization formulas which are typically based upon information such as 
2.1.4.1 Enrollment growth projections, 
2.1.4.2 Projected capacity load, 
2.1.4.3 Least-cost-to-state concepts. 
2.1.4.4 Capital Outlay projects which are District funded may also be 
reviewed by the committee as part of the annual Program 
Development Funds (PDF) cycle. 

BUDGET PLANNING AND ADMINISTRATION  
 
Budget Planning  R-8122 
Budget 3 of 5 
 
3.0 Responsibilities of Committee Representatives 
3.1 A College representative appointed by the site should understand or be actively 
involved in the College or site’s planning process or budget committee. 
3.2 A College/site representative and union representatives are responsible for 
disseminating or communicating relevant budget issues to/from his/her 
constituency group. 
3.3 Any District Budget Committee recommendations related to District-wide 
processes shall be advisory to the Chancellor. 
4.0 Committee Appointments 
4.1 Representatives to the District Budget Committee shall be made or reaffirmed at 
the start of each fall semester. 
5.0 Meeting Schedule 
5.1 A minimum of two meetings shall be held each semester which shall be scheduled 
at an appropriate time to include a review of: 
5.1.1 The budget proposed by the Governor of the State of California which 
affects California community colleges; 
5.1.2 The District budget based upon proposed State financing issues related to 
community colleges; 
5.1.3 The proposed District’s Program Development Fund (PDF) allocation for 
the current year; 
5.1.4 Any major changes to District-wide budget allocation models and the 
development of new models which may have a significant financial impact 
to the Colleges; 
5.1.5 The development of or major changes to the District-wide facility 
planning process 
6.0 Conduct of meetings 
6.1 The committee shall operate in a consensus mode and for most items, an official 
vote will not occur. 
6.1.1 If consensus is not reached, a simple majority of the committee members 
present would move a recommendation forward to the Chancellor. 
6.1.2 A minority position or statement may also be prepared and forwarded as 
determined by the Committee. 

BUDGET PLANNING AND ADMINISTRATION  
 
Budget Planning  R-8122 
Budget 4 of 5 
 
6.1.3 Only votes of committee members present at a meeting shall be counted. 
No proxy votes (substitute votes) shall be counted. 
6.2 A “quorum” will be determined based upon the number of committee members 
who are in attendance for that meeting. 
6.3 Materials or information scheduled for review or discussion shall be mailed in 
advance of the meeting if possible. 
6.4 As necessary, and as determined by the co-chairs, an on-line meeting may be 
scheduled for time sensitive or non-controversial items. Any member may object 
to the on-line meeting and ask that an open discussion meeting be held.  
6.5 Sub-committees may be formed as determined by the co-chairs to review specific 
areas or topics. The results of such reviews shall be brought back to the District 
Budget Committee. 
6.6 The District Budget Committee is a participatory (shared) governance committee 
as further described in Board Policy P-3411 and Administrative Regulation R-
3412. The Committee is a standing committee and is advisory to the Chancellor. 
Two areas of constituency representation and their participation are further 
clarified in the following sections: 
6.7 The Academic Senate 
6.7.1 The Academic Senate, as a representative of faculty, makes 
recommendations to administration and to the Board of Trustees with 
respect to certain academic and professional matters. (Ca. Code Regs., tit. 
5 § 53200 and following). One of the ten areas of “academic and 
professional matters” defined in California Code of Regulations, title 5, 
section 53200 is the processes for institutional planning and budget 
development. 
6.7.2 The Academic Senate role is to help shape the processes used for 
development of plans and budgets. The Academic Senate does not have 
responsibility for the development of the District budgets. 
6.7.3 With Senate participation on the District Budget Committee, the Senate 
retains its defined role and responsibility relating to the processes for 
planning and budget development as defined in California Code of 
Regulations, title 5 section 53200. 
6.8 Collective bargaining representation 
6.8.1 The District Budget Committee shall not address matters within the scope 
of collective bargaining. 
6.8.2 A collective bargaining member on the District Budget Committee 
represents union interests and similar to all other committee members, is 

BUDGET PLANNING AND ADMINISTRATION  
 
Budget Planning  R-8122 
Budget 5 of 5 
 
responsible for communicating and disseminating information to his/her 
constituency. Issues related to collective bargaining matters shall be 
maintained external to this committee. 
6.9 In conjunction with participatory (shared) governance principles, some of the 
District Budget Committee operational goals are: 
6.10 Understanding and acceptance of committee decisions 
6.11 Commitment to their implementation 
6.12 Understanding of, and commitment to, objectives 
6.13 Achieving less dissent with the participatory process 
6.13.1 Opportunities for discussions of issues 
6.13.2 Opportunities for information sharing 
6.13.3 Opportunities for conflict resolution 
6.14 Expanding leadership opportunities for participants and others 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 1/24/00 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 8/23/04; 2/23/09; 3/12/12 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed:  
Board Policy: P-8122