COMPENSATION AND RELATED BENEFITS 
 
Classified Staff Development R-6371 
Staff Development Leaves 1 of 5 
 
1.0 Staff Development Leaves Committee 
1.1 A joint committee composed of members of the LRCEA, the LRSA and District 
management representatives shall administer the staff development leave policy 
of the Board of Trustees. Leadership from each unit may appoint up to one (1) 
representative from each of the four (4) colleges and the District Office from their 
respective constituencies to serve on the joint committee. Management 
representatives will be the Associate Vice Chancellor of Human Resources, the 
Training Specialist, the Director of Accounting Services, and a college 
management representative, or their designees. 
1.2 The Joint Committee on Staff Development Leaves (JCSDL) will meet formally 
the first week in September and the first week in April to review applications and 
select candidates for recommendation to the Chancellor and the Board of 
Trustees. Subsequent meetings may be called at the discretion of a majority of the 
members. The final selection among recommended candidates shall rest with the 
Board of Trustees. 
2.0 Staff Development Leaves 
2.1 Staff development leaves will be granted each academic year to classified 
employees of the District assigned to the following classified units in the number 
designated, provided applicable and sufficient funding is available. 
LRCEA 3 or 1.25 FTE 
LRSA  1 or 0.41 FTE 
2.2 Funding sources are described in the appendices of the classified employee 
contracts. 
3.0 Eligibility for Leave 
3.1 Any employee who has a work assignment of at least seventy-five percent (75% 
FTE) of a full-time twelve (12) month assignment and has satisfactorily 
completed a sequence of seven (7) full-time equivalent (FTE) years of service 
with the District is eligible for a Staff Development Leave. 
3.2 The leave program is intended to fully release the employee from all regular 
assignments and responsibilities. A partial reduction in workload is not permitted. 
3.3 In addition, there must be seven (7) full-time equivalent (FTE) years of 
satisfactory service between leaves to one individual regardless of the length of 
the leave that was previously granted under these provisions (one (1) to five (5) 
months). 

COMPENSATION AND RELATED BENEFITS 
 
Classified Staff Development R-6371 
Staff Development Leaves 2 of 5 
 
4.0 Duration and Time of Leave 
4.1 A staff Development Leave is available to an eligible member for a period from 
one (1) to five (5) months at eighty-five percent (85%) of the employee's regular 
pay during the approved leave period that is scheduled during the employee's 
regularly assigned work schedule. 
4.2 Such leaves may be taken in one-quarter (¼) or one (1) semester increments.  The 
minimum approved leave is one (1) month. 
5.0 Procedures 
5.1 The application must receive the recommendation of the immediate supervisor 
and the appropriate administrator as well as the college president or the 
appropriate Vice Chancellor at the District office. 
5.2 Applications for leaves must be submitted to the Associate Vice Chancellor of 
Human Resources on the Staff Development Leave form seven (7) months prior 
to the anticipated start of the requested leave to ensure consideration.  
5.3 All portions of the Application for Staff Development Leave form must be 
completed or the application will be disqualified. 
6.0 Selection of Candidates 
6.1 In order to be considered, applications must meet one (1) or more of the following 
qualifiers: 
a) Retraining of applicant to allow for future new assignment in a needed area as 
determined by District priorities; 
b) Studies, projects, or activities that provide the employee with opportunities to 
upgrade skills and knowledge for current or future assignments; 
c) Complete uninterrupted studies which will benefit the employee, the District, 
other employees and students: 
d) Other activities which will enhance the employee's knowledge and value to 
the District, other employees and to students. 
6.2 Members of the JCSDL will score qualifying applications according to the 
following weighted criteria: 
a) A clear delineation of the activities to be pursued:1-3 points. 
b) The statement of purpose and objectives: 1-5 points. 
c) The impact of the training or studies on the employee, the District, other 
employees and to students:1-10 points. 

COMPENSATION AND RELATED BENEFITS 
 
Classified Staff Development R-6371 
Staff Development Leaves 3 of 5 
 
d) The method of sharing the results of the activity with others, if appropriate: 1-
2 points. 
e) Neatness and completeness of application: 1-3 points.  
6.3 Rankings will be determined from the composite rankings of the unit and 
management committee members reviewing the application.  Applicants will be 
ranked by each reviewing committee member according to the highest number of 
points.  The applicant with the highest points will be ranked number one (1), the 
next highest number two (2), etc.  In the Event there is a tie between applicants on 
the final ranking, the most senior employee will be selected, provided all else is 
equal.  Only the number of candidates allowed per unit per year (See Section 2.0) 
will be recommended to the Chancellor and the Board of Trustees, except that any 
unused leaves will be carried forward to the following academic year for use by 
the appropriate unit. 
6.3.1 The composite rankings shall be computed by the Associate Vice 
Chancellor of Human Resources and individual committee member 
rankings shall remain confidential. 
6.4 Should the Chancellor or his/her designee disagree with the committee's selection, 
the reasons shall be given in writing and forwarded to the JCSDL within two (2) 
weeks after submission.  Any employee who is recommended for a leave by the 
JCSDL and is not recommended by the Chancellor shall have the right to appeal 
to the Board of Trustees. 
7.0 Reporting Requirements 
7.1 All employees who receive a staff development leave under these provisions, 
must prepare a report describing the activity and explaining how the experience 
has helped them achieve the goal and objective originally proposed in the request 
for leave.  The report should also include a plan for sharing information with 
colleagues or students, if appropriate. 
7.2 If the employee attended school/college during the leave, he/she shall also submit 
a transcript or other appropriate documentation showing satisfactory attendance 
and successful completion of the course work as soon as reasonably possible.  A 
grade point average of less that 2.0 for all of the courses taken under the 
provisions of this leave is subject to a  seventy-five percent (75%) payback of the 
total salary and benefit costs, including health benefit premiums, which were 
incurred by the District during the leave period and shall be owed to the District 
by the employee.  
7.3 The report must be submitted to the Associate Vice Chancellor of Human 
Resources within two (2) months after the employee returns to regular 
duties.  Failure to submit a report and transcripts (if applicable) within the 
required timelines will result in the employee being required to repay all or a 
portion of the salary and benefits paid during the period of leave. 

COMPENSATION AND RELATED BENEFITS 
 
Classified Staff Development R-6371 
Staff Development Leaves 4 of 5 
 
7.4 The JCSDL will review the reports submitted by employees returning from a Staff 
Development Leave and shall recommend approval or disapproval of the report to 
the college president or Vice Chancellor.  Upon approval, the report shall be 
transmitted to the Chancellor. 
7.5 If the JCSDL determines that the report fails to meet the requirements set forth in 
Section 7.1 above, the report will be returned to the employee for revision.  The 
committee will inform the employee in writing the reasons for rejection of the 
report and what additional information is expected.  The employee will be 
allowed twenty-five (25) working days to complete the report and resubmit it to 
the Associate Vice Chancellor of Human Resources. 
7.6 Failure to complete the report and resubmit it and/or disapproval by the JCSDL of 
the final report is subject to a seventy-five percent (75%) payback of the total 
salary and benefit costs, including health benefit premiums, incurred by the 
District during the leave period and shall be owed to the District by the employee. 
8.0 Penalties for Non-Compliance 
8.1 If the required employment/service or other terms of the service agreement are not 
fulfilled, the employee shall be required to repay to the District the cost of salary 
and benefits, including health benefit premiums which were provided to the 
employee during the period of the leave.  If the employee completes a portion of 
the required service, a ratio shall be calculated based upon the amount of unserved 
time/service bears to the total required service period.  Such ratio shall be applied 
to the total salary and benefit costs incurred by District during the leave period 
and shall be owed to the District by the employee. 
8.2 If the employee becomes seriously ill and cannot continue the activity, the staff 
development leave will be converted to allowable sick leave at the 
commencement of the illness.  The employee will not be required to repay the 
partial leave provided a verification of illness, signed by a physician, with dates 
and diagnosis is submitted to the Associate Vice Chancellor of Human Resources. 
9.0 Salary and Benefits 
9.1 District shall provide eighty-five percent (85%) of the employee's regular pay 
during the period of leave as long as the leave period falls within the assigned or 
regular work period of the employee.  Monthly salary payments to the employee 
shall be provided in the same manner, but at the reduced amount.  The employee 
shall also receive the same level of health benefits or the District contribution 
amount towards medical, dental and long-term disability coverage that is provided 
during the employee's regular assignment when actively employed. 
9.2 The leave shall be considered as service time with the District for salary schedule 
purposes provided that all requirements of the leave are fulfilled. 

COMPENSATION AND RELATED BENEFITS 
 
Classified Staff Development R-6371 
Staff Development Leaves 5 of 5 
 
9.3 During the period of the leave, the employee shall earn eighty-five percent (85%) 
of the normal credit for sick leave.  Vacation days shall not be earned during the 
period of the leave.  Accrued sick leave may not be used to extend the leave 
period. 
10.0 Retirement Service Credit 
10.1 Employees shall receive eighty-five percent (85%) of their regular credit for 
service credited with Public Employees Retirement System (PERS).  Employees 
may, however, arrange to make a contribution to PERS to ensure full service 
credit for the period of the leave as provided by PERS regulations. 
11.0 Tuition Reimbursement 
11.1 A limited amount of funding has been set aside to provide tuition reimbursement 
for successful candidates who were granted a long-term staff development leave 
under this regulation for the purpose of attending a college or 
university.  Depending on availability, reimbursement may be for full or partial 
tuition charged during the period of the leave up to a maximum of three thousand 
dollars ($3,000).  To be considered for this benefit, the employee must provide the 
official transcript, a receipt from the college or university validating payment, and 
must have a 2.0 grade point average for the classes taken during this leave 
period.  This benefit will cease when limited funds are exhausted. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 2/26/01 
Adm. Regulation Revised:  
Adm. Regulation Reviewed:  
Board Policy: P-6371