EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Performance Evaluation R-9141 
Evaluation 1 of 4 
 
1.0 Management Evaluation Process 
1.1 These regulations shall apply to all managers except for the Chancellor and 
District Officers. 
1.2 The Chancellor shall establish an annual evaluation process for District Officers 
and provide annual reports to the Board. 
2.0 General Guidelines 
2.1 New or reassigned managers shall be evaluated each year for the first two years.  
After two years, evaluations shall occur at least once every three years. 
2.1.1 Nothing in these procedures shall prevent a supervisor from conducting an 
additional evaluation. 
2.2 All evaluations shall be completed by February 15. 
2.3 Confidentiality shall be maintained by all parties to this process.  The contents of 
all documents shall remain confidential. 
2.4 Performance evaluations shall be based on performance of job duties, success in 
meeting goals and objectives, leadership, human relations, communications, 
personal managerial qualities, and other appropriate criteria. 
2.5 The responsibility for the process rests with the primary evaluator who is the 
immediate supervisor of the manager being evaluated. 
2.5.1 Any primary evaluator supervising more than five managers may 
designate another manager to assist with the process. 
2.6 Because of the variety of assignments and duties among managers, comparisons 
among and between managers will not be part of the evaluation process. 
3.0 Progress Report 
3.1 All managers shall receive written progress reports annually. 
3.2 The intent of the progress report is to provide the manager with feedback on the 
manager’s performance in a more streamlined manner than in the performance 
evaluation setting. 
3.3 The progress report shall include a discussion of the level of achievement of goals 
and objectives for the preceding year and goals and objectives for the upcoming 
year. 
3.4 The primary evaluator may seek input from other staff as part of the progress 
report. 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Performance Evaluation R-9141 
Evaluation 2 of 4 
 
4.0 Performance Evaluation Components 
4.1 Performance Evaluation Surveys 
4.1.1 Survey forms shall be provided by District Personnel Services. 
4.1.2 By mutual agreement of the supervisor and manager, items may be added 
to the survey to reflect special circumstances or unique assignments. 
4.1.3 Except for Section 4.1.6.3 below, the audience for the survey will be 
mutually agreed upon by the supervisor and manager and will be 
distributed to a sample of persons served by the manager and his or her 
office. 
4.1.4 The determination of the audience to be surveyed shall include any 
recommendations from the peer committee if one is used.  
4.1.5 The audience shall be provided with relevant goals and objectives for the 
manager being evaluated. 
4.1.6 Guidelines for audience to be surveyed are: 
4.1.6.1 Surveys may be distributed to other managers, faculty, and 
classified staff. 
4.1.6.2 College managers who interact on a regular basis with District staff 
shall include District staff.  District managers who interact on a 
regular basis with college staff shall include staff at all colleges. 
4.1.6.3 Deans shall include all full-time area faculty, all regularly 
employed area classified staff, and a sampling of part-time faculty 
from the area, approximately 10 percent (10%), if possible. 
4.1.6.4 Vice Presidents, Associate Vice Presidents and Directors shall 
include other managers and staff with whom they regularly 
interact. 
4.1.7 The immediate supervisor shall be responsible for conducting the 
manager's survey, but the supervisor may designate another manager to 
distribute the survey with the approved cover memo and summarize the 
results.  The surveys and ScanTron forms will be returned to the office of 
the supervisor where the survey ratings and written comments will be 
summarized.   
4.1.7.1 The ratings may be categorized separately by employee groups 
(classified, faculty, management) if five or more responses are 
received from each of the groups; otherwise, the ratings will be 
combined into one category. 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Performance Evaluation R-9141 
Evaluation 3 of 4 
 
4.2 Self-evaluation 
The manager's self-evaluation shall consist of the following: 
4.2.1 Completion of the survey form by the manager 
4.2.2 A narrative with respect to the manager's job performance based on job 
description, achievement of annual goals and objectives, and assignments. 
4.3 Completed Final Evaluation Form 
4.3.1 The final evaluation form shall be completed by the primary evaluator 
based on the survey, the self-evaluation, and the primary evaluator=s own 
findings.  If a peer committee is used (see Section 5.0 below), the 
committee's input shall also be utilized. 
4.3.2 The final evaluation form shall include a discussion of the level of 
achievement of goals and objectives. 
4.3.3 Recommendations shall be accompanied by specific suggestions for 
improvement and, where appropriate, shall include management 
development activities such as mentoring, workshops, job shadowing, 
conferences, etc.  
4.4 Statement of Goals and Objectives 
4.4.1 Each performance evaluation shall contain a statement of goals and 
objectives for the upcoming year. 
4.4.2 Goals and objectives should establish measurable targets. 
4.4.3 To the extent possible, the goals and objectives, to be evaluated, shall be 
consistent with goals and objectives developed by the manager for college 
and/or district wide planning. 
5.0 Peer Committees 
5.1 The performance evaluation process may include the use of a peer evaluation 
committee at the option of either the primary evaluator or the manager.  The 
committee will be chaired by the primary evaluator and will include two 
additional managers, one to be selected by the manager and one by the primary 
evaluator. 
5.1.1 A peer is defined as any manager below the level of college president, vice 
chancellor or provost.  If possible, peers should be in a similar position at 
the same level as the manager. 
5.1.2 If possible, the peer committee should retain the same membership for the 
first two evaluation years of a new or reassigned manager. 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Performance Evaluation R-9141 
Evaluation 4 of 4 
 
5.1.3 The selected peers should be sensitive to issues of diversity. 
6.0 Performance Evaluation and Progress Reports Timelines 
6.1 Performance evaluations shall be completed no later than March 1st. 
6.2 Progress reports shall be completed no later than December 1st.  Managers hired 
after August 1 of any year shall receive their first progress report no later than 120 
days after their first day of work and on December 1st each year thereafter. 
(Formerly P-9131) 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 2/21/78  
Adm. Regulation Revised: 2/18/81; 6/16/82; 9/10/85; 9/25/90; 11/10/92; 10/26/98; 
11/18/02 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed:  
Board Policy: P-9141