EXPENDITURES 
  
District Vehicle Use Authorization R-8343 
Reimbursement 1 of 15 
 
1.0 Assignment of District Vehicles to Operating Units 
1.1 Los Rios Community College District vehicles are assigned for authorized purposes 
to various District locations, including but not limited to American River College, 
Cosumnes River College, Sacramento City College, Folsom Lake College, Facilities 
Management, and District offices. 
1.2 Vehicles shall be secured when not in use. 
1.3 Employees using District vehicles must meet qualifications as outlined in these 
regulations. 
1.4 Vehicles to be used almost exclusively by specific employees are assigned for 
administrative purposes to an operating unit. 
2.0 Responsibility for District Vehicles 
1.5 The responsibility for vehicles that are the property of the District is delegated to the 
College/location to which the vehicles are assigned. At the College level, the Vice 
President of Administration is responsible for safeguarding the vehicles. The Vice 
President of Administration may coordinate the vehicle program with the police 
department. Responsibilities for vehicles at Facilities Management and the District 
Office lie with the Associate Vice Chancellor of Facilities Management and the 
Director of General Services, respectively. The Chief of Police is responsible for 
vehicles assigned to Police Services. For purposes of this regulation, they shall be 
classified as Vehicle Managers.  Such responsibility includes but is not limited to the 
following: 
1.5.1 Handling the keys. 
1.5.2 Controlling gas credit cards. 
1.5.3 Scheduling vehicles. 
1.5.4 Obtaining proof of driver's license status and verifying driver is authorized 
to drive a district vehicle. 
1.5.5 Verifying proper insurance coverage for employees and volunteers using 
their own vehicles for District business. 
1.6 Facilities Management handles all the maintenance, scheduled service and 
inspections of the vehicles. Daily inspection of the vehicles is the responsibility of 
the location the vehicle is assigned to. 

EXPENDITURES 
  
District Vehicle Use Authorization R-8343 
Reimbursement 2 of 15 
 
3.0 Authorized Drivers of District Vehicles 
3.1 Definition 
3.1.1 An authorized driver is one who has cleared the DMV Pull Program, 
completed the DMV form titled "DMV Driver Record Release" and 
completed an approved driver training course. Only authorized drivers can 
drive District vehicles. 
3.1.2 Only authorized Los Rios faculty, staff, students, and volunteers may 
drive District vehicles. All drivers must be at least 18 years of age. 
Please note:  Non-employees (students and volunteers) are not enrolled in 
the DMV Pull Notice Program, but their DMV driver record is pulled and 
reviewed when necessary. 
3.1.3 Each new employee with a driver's license requirement in their job 
description processed in Human Resources shall complete the DMV Form 
titled "DMV Driver Record Release" and the form shall be forwarded to 
General Services to enroll the new employee in the DMV Pull Program.   
3.1.4 For all other potential drivers, it is the responsibility of each Vehicle 
Manager to have the potential driver complete the DMV form titled 
"DMV Driver Record Release" and submit the form to General Services to 
enroll the new driver in the DMV Pull Program. 
3.1.5 Prior to granting use of district vehicles, the driver's age must be verified 
(drivers must be at least 18 years old), and the driver must be 
AUTHORIZED as outlined in 3.1. 
3.1.6 All notices from the DMV Pull Program regarding a driver's motor vehicle 
record shall be reviewed. If more than two (2) points have accumulated on 
the driver's record within the last twelve (12) months, or if the record 
shows more than 3 points, the driver will not be authorized to drive 
District vehicles (owned, rented or leased) or privately owned vehicles for 
any activities associated with the District. A driver who has been 
previously authorized will have such authorization revoked based upon the 
above criteria. 
3.1.7 It is the discretion of the Vehicle Manager at each location to deny 
employees and non-employees permission to drive District vehicles based 
on their driver record or other concerning events even when they are 
within the allowable points. 
3.1.8 All drivers (regular, occasional, and assigned) must complete an approved 
safe driving course prior to driving a District vehicle and at least every 
three (3) years thereafter. 

EXPENDITURES 
  
District Vehicle Use Authorization R-8343 
Reimbursement 3 of 15 
 
3.1.9 Through the DMV Pull Program, the DMV notifies the District when 
drivers are convicted of motor vehicle violations and when action is taken 
against a driver's license or special certificate. All drivers are a part of this 
system and their names are on file with the DMV. 
3.1.10 Under the California Vehicle Code, there are criminal penalties for 
employing or continuing to employ a driver who has had a disqualifying 
action taken against his or her license or certificate. Individuals considered 
by the District to have a poor driving record, or considered "negligent" by 
the DMV, cannot function as drivers or be allowed to use District vehicles 
or their own vehicles for District business. 
3.1.11 General Services shall be informed by the Vehicle Manager or designee at 
each location of the names of employees, students, and volunteers to be 
added or deleted from the System. 
3.1.12 General Services shall be informed by Human Resources of all those 
permanent employees that should be deleted from the System upon the 
employee’s retirement, resignation, or reassignment to a position that does 
not require use of District vehicles. 
3.2 Drivers Defined 
3.2.1 Occasional drivers are persons, whether employees, students or 
volunteers, who need a vehicle to go to an off-campus meeting, seminar, 
or event or from time to time to conduct District related business. 
3.2.2 Regular drivers are defined as Campus Police/, Duplicating, Maintenance, 
Delivery, Bus, Cart, or Custodial drivers, or any employee whose job 
requires use of a vehicle on a daily or consistently scheduled basis.  The 
Vehicle Manager will have the responsibility to determine whether an 
employee will be considered a regular driver or an occasional driver. 
3.2.3 Assigned drivers are authorized drivers (occasional or regular) for trips 
longer than two hundred (200) miles (one way) or twelve (12) hours 
duration. 
3.3 Occasional Drivers of District Vehicles 
3.3.1 A Class C California driver's license is needed to drive any two-axle 
vehicle weighing less than 26,001 pounds (except for motorcycles, fifteen 
(15) passenger vans and buses). A three-axle vehicle weighing less than 
6,000 pounds fully loaded may be operated with a Class C license. 
3.4 Regular Drivers 
A District vehicle may be assigned to an employee on a regular basis for 
the conduct of routine District business when in the judgment of the 
Vehicle Manager, the nature of the employee's duties requires the constant 

EXPENDITURES 
  
District Vehicle Use Authorization R-8343 
Reimbursement 4 of 15 
 
use of such a vehicle.  Situations under which such authorization may be 
given generally involve one or more of the following: 
3.4.1 Provision of emergency service to the District. 
3.4.2 When it is determined that such assignment will result in a more efficient 
and economical use of a District vehicle. 
3.4.3 An employee whose normal duties require travel in excess of five hundred 
(500) miles per month may be assigned a vehicle during normal working 
hours. 
3.5 Bus Drivers and Drivers of Vehicles Carrying 10 - 15 Passengers 
3.5.1 The following qualifications are necessary to operate a District bus and 
passenger van: 
3.5.1.1 Be an employee of the District and at least 18 years of age.  
3.5.1.2 Possess a Class B California driver's license with the Passenger 
endorsement. 
3.5.1.3 Possess a current Medical Certificate approved by the DMV. 
3.5.1.4 Bus Drivers must obtain approval from the Associate Vice 
Chancellor of Facilities Management or designated representative. 
3.5.2 A copy of a current driver's license and Medical Certificate for Class B 
drivers and bus drivers shall be maintained with the appropriate designee. 
New copies are to be obtained upon expiration. 
3.6 Assigned Drivers 
3.6.1 Assigned drivers will be approved by the Vehicle Manager. 
3.6.2 Assigned drivers will not participate in the event or activity.  The role of 
the assigned driver is to drive and be responsible for the vehicle. 
(Procedures and conditions for an exemption to allow the assigned driver 
to participate in the event or activity can be found under section 6.3.2 of 
this regulation.) 
4.0 Vehicle Requests by Occasional and Assigned Drivers 
4.1 An employee may reserve and use a District vehicle to conduct District business 
when a vehicle reservation is accepted by the Vehicle Manager.  The following is 
needed:  
4.1.1 Driver's name, which must be on the authorized drivers list. 

EXPENDITURES 
  
District Vehicle Use Authorization R-8343 
Reimbursement 5 of 15 
 
4.1.2 Driver(s) must show license when checking out the vehicle to confirm 
driver is at least 18 yrs. old and the license is valid. 
4.1.3 Department.  
4.1.4 Departure time.  
4.1.5 Return time.  
4.1.6 Number of passengers.  
4.1.7 Destination, to include the number of travel hours and estimated miles. 
4.1.8 Assigned driver's name and written request for an exemption to allow 
assigned driver(s) to participate in the event or field trip per section 6.3.2 
of this regulation--as appropriate. 
4.1.9 Phone number of the person making the request. 
4.1.10 Purpose of the activity or trip. 
4.2 Requests for vehicles must be submitted in accordance with each location’s 
procedures. Submission of a request does not guarantee the use of a vehicle since 
requests will be granted on a vehicle availability basis and if the driver is on the 
authorized drivers list.  
4.3 The Vehicle Manager at the college/location will ensure that each person using a 
vehicle is made aware of District regulations and rules. 
5.0 Picking Up Vehicles 
5.1 The Vehicle Manager will give the approved driver the vehicle keys, travel log, 
and Pre Trip and Post Trip Vehicle Use Inspection Forms.  Pre-Trip and Post-
Trip Vehicle Use Inspection Forms. 
5.2 Keys will be given only to the approved driver. 
5.3 If a driver needs the vehicle before regular hours, she or he must pick up the keys 
(Monday through Friday) the day before the reservation. 
6.0 Vehicle Use and Assignment 
6.1 Approved drivers are responsible for the proper care of District vehicles and must 
adhere to established District regulations. The Pre-Trip and Post-Trip Vehicle 
Use Inspection Forms must be completed for each trip.  Use of a vehicle 
requires returning the vehicle to the College/location immediately after the 
authorized use. 

EXPENDITURES 
  
District Vehicle Use Authorization R-8343 
Reimbursement 6 of 15 
 
6.2 Only in special circumstances may a vehicle be taken home overnight and only 
with prior approval from the Vehicle Manager. 
6.3 A District vehicle may be utilized for curriculum related transportation or field 
trips. 
6.3.1 The use of District vehicles for this purpose is allowed only if the 
proposed travel request is in accordance with the educational objectives of 
the college division, and the course of study, when a course is involved. 
6.3.2 Curriculum related uses that are longer than two hundred (200) miles (one 
way) or have a duration of more than twelve (12) hours, must have an 
authorized assigned driver. However, there may be some events or field 
trips where it is not practical to appoint an assigned driver that can not 
participate in the event or field trip activities. The following conditions 
must be met to obtain an exemption that allows the assigned drivers to 
also participate in the event or field trip:  
6.3.2.1 A written request for an exemption from the instructor must be 
submitted to the Vehicle Manager and approved by the Vice 
President of Administration or his/her designee. The request must 
detail the justification for the exemption, (i.e., why the assigned 
drivers should be allowed to drive and participate in the event or 
field trip), and provide reasonable assurances and protocols to 
ensure that assigned drivers remain fresh and alert during the trip. 
This may be accomplished by having two or more assigned drivers 
per vehicle. 
6.3.2.2 Assigned drivers must adhere to standard District requirements of 
clearing the DMV Pull Program, completing the DMV Driver 
Record Release form, and completing an approved driver training 
course. 
6.3.2.3 Assigned drivers will be limited to no more than four hours of 
driving each day, and no more than two hours of continuous 
driving--without a change of assigned driver or a fifteen (15) 
minute break. Driving between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. is 
prohibited without prior approval of the Vice President of 
Administration. 
6.3.2.4 Assigned drivers will be reimbursed for their lodging and meal 
expenses under standard District per diem rates as costs of the trip.  
7.0 Vehicle Malfunction 
7.1 When returning a vehicle that has malfunctioned, the driver should use the Post-
Trip Vehicle Use Inspection Form to describe the problem and place it with the 
Travel Log to be returned to the Vehicle Manager. Upon receiving the Post-Trip 

EXPENDITURES 
  
District Vehicle Use Authorization R-8343 
Reimbursement 7 of 15 
 
Vehicle Use Inspection Form, the Vehicle Manager will notify Facilities 
Management of the reported problem. 
7.1.1 If the vehicle's malfunction is minor and not a safety hazard but it cannot 
be serviced before it is taken out again, a note or copy of the report should 
be left in a conspicuous spot in the vehicle to warn the next driver of any 
problems in the vehicle's performance. 
7.1.2 If the malfunction is a safety hazard, place an "Out of Service, Safety 
Problem" sign on the steering wheel with a note or copy of the Post-Trip 
Vehicle Use Inspection Form  
7.1.3 Performance reports and out-of-service signs are maintained in the glove 
compartment. 
7.2 If a malfunction occurs during the vehicle use and the vehicle becomes 
inoperable, the driver can receive assistance by calling the Facilities Management 
at (916) 856-3400. Should a malfunction occur after hours or on the weekend, 
help can be received by calling the Los Rios Police Department (558-2221). 
7.2.1 Emergency repairs including flat tires up to five hundred dollars ($500) 
are pre-authorized. Repairs above five hundred dollars ($500) must 
receive authorization from the appropriate Vehicle Manager whenever 
possible.  
7.3 Vehicles are not to be abandoned.  
7.3.1 If a vehicle must be left unattended, the driver is responsible for ensuring 
that the vehicle is left in a safe location, preferably a service station. 
Information as to location and condition of the vehicle must be given to 
the Vehicle Manager immediately. If unable to contact the Vehicle 
Manager, the driver shall call the Los Rios Police Department (558-2365) 
with the information.  
8.0 Key and Travel Log Return 
8.1 If the vehicle is returned after business hours, the driver should park the vehicle in 
the same area it was picked up. 
8.1.1 Keys, credit cards, credit card receipts, and Pre-Trip and Post-Trip 
Vehicle Use Inspection Forms should be returned to the appropriate 
office at the conclusion of use. 
8.1.2 The driver is to record the travel information on the Monthly Travel Log 
and the trip mileage on the Pre-Trip and Post-Trip Vehicle Use 
Inspection Form, noting any vehicle problems. 
8.2 Vehicles are to be returned on time to meet the time lines for the next scheduled 
use. 

EXPENDITURES 
  
District Vehicle Use Authorization R-8343 
Reimbursement 8 of 15 
 
8.2.1 On occasions when the vehicle is not scheduled to be returned until after 
regular hours and is scheduled for use before regular hours the following 
day, the Vehicle Manager or designee will issue a second set of keys and  
Pre-Trip and Post-Trip Vehicle Use Inspection Forms to the second 
driver of the vehicle. 
8.3 The Vehicle Manager will maintain the Monthly Travel Log by making certain 
each trip's beginning mileage figure matches the ending mileage figure from the 
previous trip. 
8.3.1 The Vehicle Manager will take odometer readings or recheck Travel Logs 
as necessary to resolve discrepancies. 
8.3.2 Mileage for service or maintenance will be indicated on the Monthly 
Travel Log as "service." 
9.0 Inappropriate Use of District Vehicles 
9.1 Examples of inappropriate use of District vehicles follow: 
9.1.1 Driving a District vehicle without authorization. 
9.1.2 Driving without a valid California operator's license of the appropriate 
class for the type of vehicle being driven. 
9.1.3 Permitting a person who is not an authorized employee or authorized 
Student or volunteer to drive a District vehicle. 
9.1.4 Noncompliance with traffic/motor vehicle laws and regulations. 
9.1.5 Unsafe practices, including failure to use seat belts, being under the 
influence of alcohol, illegal drugs, or prescription drugs that may hinder 
driving abilities, etc. 
9.1.6 Falsification of travel logs, travel authorizations, or other forms relative to 
the use of the vehicle. 
9.1.7 Picking up hitchhikers.  
9.1.8 Not returning a vehicle in a clean and neat state.  
9.1.9 Transporting items that may cause damage in the vehicle.  
9.1.10 Allowing a passenger that is not an official participant of the trip or event. 
9.1.11 Driving a District/College owned, rented or leased vehicle while using an 
electronic handheld device (see Section 15). 

EXPENDITURES 
  
District Vehicle Use Authorization R-8343 
Reimbursement 9 of 15 
 
9.1.12 Driving between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. is prohibited 
without prior approval of the Vice President of Administration. 
9.2 Inappropriate District vehicle use can result in employees being liable for 
damages and disciplinary action. Drivers are responsible for traffic citations 
(including illegal parking fines) incurred while in control of the vehicle. 
9.3 The driver shall use and ensure that all passengers use seat belts and/or shoulder 
harnesses when the vehicle is in operation. 
9.4 All drivers are responsible for safeguarding the vehicle and must follow District 
regulations. Failure to adhere to District regulations will result in non-use of 
District vehicles, and/or other disciplinary action. 
10.0 Vehicle Accident, Citations and Insurance  
10.1 The driver shall submit a full statement of facts concerning every accident or 
citation (ticket) within twenty-four (24) hours to the Vehicle Manager. A Los 
Rios police report shall be filed if the accident occurs on campus.  
10.1.1 The driver is responsible for submitting a detailed description of the 
accident or ticket and damage to the vehicle.  
10.1.2 Proper information is to be exchanged at the scene of the accident, to 
include name, phone number, license number, insurance carrier and 
employer of persons involved.  
10.1.3 The Vehicle Manager shall review the accident report and submit a 
summation to Risk Management.  
10.1.4 Drivers involved in an accident (regardless of fault), are required to 
participate in an approved driver training course.   
10.2 Damage to District vehicles is covered under the District's self-insurance fund. 
10.2.1 The District will cover any damages or related costs to vehicles, including 
towing charges, resulting from an accident, less the deductible to be paid 
by the College/location.  
10.2.2 If damages are covered by third party, and recovery is not received, the 
College/location is responsible for the amount of the deductible.  
10.3 In exceptional cases where the damage is judged to be due to an employee's or 
student's misuse or careless operation of a vehicle, the employee or student may 
be required to reimburse the District for all or part of the cost of repairs.  
10.3.1 It is the responsibility of the District Risk Manager to determine whether 
misuse occurred and to collect reimbursement in these exceptional cases.  

EXPENDITURES 
  
District Vehicle Use Authorization R-8343 
Reimbursement 10 of 15 
 
10.4 Employees authorized for use of District vehicles are covered under the District’s 
property and liability insurance policies. 
11.0 Employee Use of Own Vehicles 
11.1 An employee may be authorized to use a privately owned vehicle in the conduct 
of authorized District business.  Employees that use their own cars for District 
business attest to having the legal minimum insurance required by law when they 
sign the Travel Authorization and Reimbursement Claim. 
11.2 Minimum insurance coverage is currently defined as: 
11.2.1 Public Liability Insurance with minimum limits of: fifteen thousand 
dollars ($15,000) for personal injury or death of one or more person; thirty 
thousand dollars ($30,000) for injury to or death of two (2) or more 
persons in one accident; five thousand dollars ($5,000) property damage.  
11.2.2 It is recommended that employees carry limits of at least one hundred 
thousand dollars ($100,000) for personal injury or death of one or more 
person; two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) for injury or death of 
two or more persons in one accident; twenty five thousand dollars 
($25,000) property damage. 
11.2.3 Vehicle Managers will verify proper insurance coverage for employees 
and volunteers using their own vehicles for company business. 
11.3 Mileage reimbursement for the use of a privately-owned vehicle is based on the 
rate established by the Internal Revenue Code.  Aside from mileage 
reimbursement, the District assumes no costs that may be incurred as a result of 
the use of such privately-owned vehicles.  The District Office Business Services 
Department will establish the effective date of any changes in the reimbursement 
rate. 
11.4 Authorization for use of a privately-owned vehicle does not include mileage use 
that is necessary for an employee to get from his/her residence to their assigned 
work place. 
11.4.1 For mileage calculations, the distance traveled is calculated using the 
employee’s assigned work place as the origination and return point. 
Standard distances have been established for use in claiming inter-district 
travel. 
11.4.2 If the employee is being paid for work that is not a part of that employee's 
regular assignment, the employee will not be reimbursed for mileage to 
get to and from the place of work associated with this additional 
assignment, except as noted in 11.4.4. 
11.4.3 The employee having an assignment requiring that part of his/her regular 
duties be performed at a location away from his/her principal place of 

EXPENDITURES 
  
District Vehicle Use Authorization R-8343 
Reimbursement 11 of 15 
 
work is expected to use a District vehicle whenever possible and can 
receive mileage reimbursement only when no District vehicle is available. 
11.4.4 When it is necessary to employ a person with special skills to work in an 
additional or special assignment at an off-campus location and where such 
person cannot be employed from within a residence area not to exceed five 
(5) miles by car from the off-campus location via the shortest route, then 
the person employed to work at the off-campus location can receive 
mileage reimbursement as if employed to perform regular contract duties 
described in 11.4.3 above. 
12.0 Vehicle Maintenance 
12.1 In California, certain vehicles are regarded as particularly "sensitive" types in the 
sense that they are subject to more stringent maintenance regulations.  Every 
motor carrier (Los Rios) operating any vehicle described in Section 34500 of 
Highway Patrol Guide 84.6 shall, as part of the systematic inspection, 
maintenance and lubrication service required of all motor carriers, require the 
vehicle or vehicles for which it is responsible to be inspected at least every ninety 
(90) days, or more often if necessary to insure safe operation such as continuous 
operation in mountainous areas. 
12.2 This inspection shall include, but not be limited to all of the following: 
12.2.1 Brake adjustment. 
12.2.2 Brake system components and leaks. 
12.2.3 Steering and suspension systems. 
12.2.4 Tires and wheels. 
12.2.5 Vehicle connecting devices. 
12.3 No vehicle subject to this section shall be operated on the highway other than to a 
place of repair until all defects listed during the inspection have been corrected 
and attested to by the signature of the motor carrier's authorized representative. 
For the District, the authorized representative is the Transportation Supervisor. 
13.0 Assignment of Utility Vehicles (carts) to Operating Units 
13.1 Utility vehicles are assigned for authorized purposes to various District locations. 
13.2 Utility vehicles are powered by electric motors or internal combustion engines.  
13.3 Drivers shall meet qualifications as outlined in these regulations.  
13.4 Responsibility for Utility Vehicles 

EXPENDITURES 
  
District Vehicle Use Authorization R-8343 
Reimbursement 12 of 15 
 
13.4.1 The responsibility for vehicles that are the property of Los Rios 
Community College District is delegated to the College/location to which 
the vehicles are assigned. At the college level, the Vice President of 
Administration is responsible for safeguarding the vehicles. 
Responsibilities for vehicles at Facilities Management and the District 
Office lie with the Associate Vice Chancellor of Facilities Management 
and the Director of General Services, respectively. The Chief of Police 
Services is responsible for vehicles assigned to Police Services. For 
purposes of this regulation, they shall be classified as Vehicle Managers. 
Such responsibility includes but is not limited to the following.  
13.4.2 It is the responsibility of Police Services, supervisors, and Vehicle 
Managers to enforce these Regulations and Operating Policy & 
Procedures. 
13.5 Qualifications to be an Authorized Driver of Utility Vehicles 
13.5.1 Only authorized District faculty, staff, students and volunteers may drive 
utility vehicles.  
13.5.2 An authorized driver of any powered industrial equipment, including 
utility vehicles must be at least 18 years old, complete an approved 
training class, and have an approved driver record. All drivers must 
complete a "DMV Driver Record Release" form. Employees are enrolled 
in the DMV Pull Notice Program and the District pulls the driver record of 
non-employees for review.   
13.5.3 It is the discretion of the Vehicle Manager at each location to deny 
employees and non-employees utility vehicle driving privileges. 
13.6 Training  
13.6.1 Both Federal OSHA and Cal OSHA require operators of powered 
industrial trucks (to include utility vehicles) to be trained. 
13.6.2 All operators must be trained in the safe operation of all campus utility 
vehicles prior to first use. Campus vehicles include all electric and engine 
powered utility vehicles operated on District property. This includes golf 
carts.  
13.6.3 All training records shall be forwarded to General Services. 
13.7 Disciplinary action shall result in any violations of campus vehicle policy and 
procedures to include the loss of vehicle operating privileges. 
13.8 Maintenance of Utility Vehicles 
13.8.1 Vehicles and battery charging station should be in good working 
condition. 

EXPENDITURES 
  
District Vehicle Use Authorization R-8343 
Reimbursement 13 of 15 
 
13.8.2 Visual inspection shall be completed before operating the cart. 
13.8.3 Report all maintenance issues for the utility vehicles or battery charging 
station to the Vehicle Manager or designee. 
13.9 Accidents/Damages 
13.9.1 All utility vehicles involved in any mishaps and or accidents shall be 
reported to Police Services immediately. 
13.9.2 Damages to the cart must be reported immediately to the Vehicle Manager 
or designee. 
14.0 Power Industrial Truck Drivers  
14.1 Due to the specialized nature of Power Industrial Trucks, training requirements 
and driver qualifications, all employees who drive power industrial trucks will be 
enrolled in the DMV Pull Notice Program. An employee's driver record is an 
indicator of their responsible operation of a motor vehicle by virtue of their 
historic driving record.   
14.1.1 Power Industrial Trucks are generally defined as industrial trucks to 
include the following: forklifts, industrial tractors, platform lift trucks, 
scissor lifts, hi/lo lifts, bobcat, motorized hand pallet jacks, walkies, utility 
vehicles (golf carts), and other specialized industrial trucks powered by 
electric or internal combustion engines. 
14.2 All drivers must be over the age of 18, have a valid license, and be within the 
allowable points as noted in 3.1.5. 
14.2.1 The Vehicle Manager has the authority to deny/suspend an employee from 
driving a Power Industrial Truck. 
14.2.2 Students and volunteers are prohibited from driving Power Industrial 
Trucks. 
14.2.2.1 An exception to 14.2.2 is allowed when students, as a part of their 
curriculum, may be required to operate Powered Industrial Trucks. 
The students must have on file with the District a signed liability 
waiver. If a student is under 18 years of age, the waiver must be 
signed by a parent or guardian. Each student must complete a 
Student DMV Driver Record Release so the District can obtain a 
copy of the student's driver record for review prior to the operation 
of any Power Industrial Trucks. The authorization forms shall be 
sent through the Vehicle Manager or designee to General Services. 
14.2.2.2 At the end of each semester, all students noted as driving a Power 
Industrial Truck for educational purposes, will no longer be 
authorized. The faculty member may submit a request through the 

EXPENDITURES 
  
District Vehicle Use Authorization R-8343 
Reimbursement 14 of 15 
 
Vehicle Manager/designee to have the student re-activated should 
that student need the authorization for another class. 
15.0 Use of Electronic Handheld Devices (i.e. Cell Phones, PDAs, etc.) 
15.1 This section is intended to apply to all electronic handheld devices. These devices 
shall not be used while operating vehicles owned, rented or leased by the 
District/College. When engaged in these pursuits, safety is paramount before all 
other concerns. 
15.2 Definitions 
15.2.1 An electronic handheld device includes, but is not limited to, a cellular 
telephone, a Personal Data Assistant, a portable music player (iPod, mp3 
player, CD player), and/or two-way radios. 
15.2.2 “Use” means the utilization of an electronic handheld device in any 
manner and includes, but is not limited to, the placing or receiving of 
telephone calls (with or without hands free technology), the composing, 
editing, reviewing, reading and sending of text messages or emails, the 
creating, editing or review of calendars or contact information, the use of 
GPS functions, accessing and reviewing internet websites and listening to 
the device using earphones.   
15.3 Use of Electronic Handheld Devices Prohibited. All operators of vehicles owned, 
rented or leased by the District/College shall not use electronic handheld devices 
while operating that vehicle. 
15.4 Use of Electronic Handheld Devices Permitted: 
15.4.1 To use any electronic handheld device while operating a vehicle owned, 
rented or leased by the District/College, whether in slow or stopped traffic, 
operators are required to do the following: 
15.4.1.1 When driving on city streets, an operator must pull off to the side 
of the road or street and safely stop the vehicle before using the 
electronic handheld device. 
15.4.1.2 When driving on a freeway or highway, an operator must safely 
exit the freeway or highway, locate a safe spot, and safely stop the 
vehicle before using electronic handheld devices. Operators shall 
NOT pull off and stop on the shoulder of the freeway or highway. 
15.5 Exception 
15.5.1 This regulation shall not apply to District police officers in the conduct of 
their official duties. 
(Formerly R-8332) 

EXPENDITURES 
  
District Vehicle Use Authorization R-8343 
Reimbursement 15 of 15 
 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 4/7/65 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 12/4/74; 1/16/80; 2/4/81; 6/16/82; 1/3/89; 11/7/89;10/7/92; 
9/1/93; 5/7/02; 1/15/03; 11/28/05; 5/8/06; 9/17/07; 9/8/08; 
4/27/09 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 8/27/15 
Board Policy: P-8343