COMPENSATION AND SCHEDULE Long-Term Personal Leave R-9234 
Leaves and Absences 1 of 1 
 
1.0 Request for and Granting of Leaves 
1.1 The employee will submit to the supervisor a letter requesting long-term personal 
leave for health, child care or pressing personal problems. If the leave is for health 
reasons, a physician's statement verifying the need for such leave must also be 
submitted. 
1.2 The request must be forwarded through the appropriate administrative channels, 
with a recommendation from the supervisor and the College President, to the 
Chancellor. The Chancellor may recommend to the Board that such a leave be 
granted. Extensions of such leave shall be handled in the same manner. 
1.3 An employee whose leave is under consideration by the Board will be notified in 
advance of the time, place, and date of the Board meeting. 
2.0 Reinstatement 
2.1 The employee on leave shall submit a request for reinstatement to the supervisor. 
If the leave was taken for health reasons, a physician's statement verifying the 
employee is fully able to assume all duties of the position must be submitted with 
the request. 
2.2 Upon verification of ability to resume duties, the employee will be restored to 
regular status if regular status had been previously earned. 
2.3 If, at the conclusion of the leave, the employee is medically unable to assume the 
duties of the position and an extension is not granted, the employee will be placed 
on a reemployment list of thirty-nine (39) months. At any time during the thirty-
nine (39) months that the attending physician verifies the employee's ability to 
perform the duties of the formerly assigned position, the employee will be 
reemployed in a vacancy in the classification of the previous assignment. Such 
employees will have preference over all other candidates except those employees 
laid off for lack of work or funds, in which case the employee shall be listed in 
accordance with seniority regulations. The District's obligation to a reemployment 
candidate terminates if the employee fails to accept an employment offer in the 
classification to which the employee was formerly assigned. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 2/21/78 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 2/18/81; 6/16/82; 10/26/98 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed:  
Board Policy: P-9234