INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 
 
Curriculum Development R-7141 
Curriculum 1 of 2 
 
1.0 Establishment of New Programs or Courses 
1.1 Criteria to be used in determining whether a new program or course should be 
established are listed below. These are not exhaustive. 
1.1.1 Updated information, the most recent available, on those individuals or 
groups who may be inclined to enroll in the proposed program, must show 
sufficient student interest to warrant establishing the program. 
1.1.2 Updated job market data, the most recent available, must demonstrate that 
students enrolling in a proposed occupational program can reasonably 
expect to obtain a job in that occupational field if the program is 
completed at a normal pace and if the student's performance has been 
average or better. 
1.1.3 There must be substantial indication that a need for the course exists as 
evidenced by student interest or by a District or State requirement. 
1.1.4 The course must be in a subject area and at an instructional level 
appropriate for community college education. 
1.1.5 In the case of an individual course, there must be no likelihood that the 
course will become the core of a new program which should not be 
approved at this time because of an adverse job market situation. 
1.1.6 The course must not constitute unnecessary duplication of other courses 
within the College or District. 
1.1.7 Adequate facilities, equipment and instructional staff must be available in 
order to offer the course or program at the appropriate level. 
1.1.8 In the area of occupational programs, there must be evidence that State 
licensing agencies have been consulted in the development of a program 
for which licensure is required. 
1.2 All new programs or courses must be in accordance with applicable Federal, State 
and local legal requirements. 
2.0 Adding or Dropping Intercollegiate Sports 
2.1 Dropping or adding an intercollegiate sport from any one of the District Colleges 
must be initiated as a proposal by the Chancellor/Superintendent or a College 
President. 
2.1.1 The decision should be the result of deliberation by any one or a 
combination of the following administrators and may include input from 
student representatives and the Academic Senate. 
2.1.1.1 College President 

INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 
 
Curriculum Development R-7141 
Curriculum 2 of 2 
 
2.1.1.2 Vice President of Instruction 
2.1.1.3 Vice President of Student Services  
2.1.1.4 Vice President of Administration 
2.1.1.5 Dean of physical education/ athletic director 
2.1.2 The Chancellor/Superintendent will advise the Board when consideration 
is being given to dropping or adding an intercollegiate sport. 
2.2 A final College recommendation made, by whatever method, shall then be 
discussed with the Chancellor/Superintendent in an effort to test the political 
implications for the Board of Trustees, the media, and the community. 
2.2.1 The presentation to the Chancellor/Superintendent should include the 
dollar cost or saving; the utilization of displaced personnel, if any, and the 
impact on the total District physical education program. 
2.3 If the College President and the Chancellor/Superintendent are in agreement on 
adding or dropping the sport, it shall then be the charge of the College 
administration to pursue formal action. 
2.3.1 Formal action to add or delete an intercollegiate sport shall be based on 
the implementation of Board Policy, (P-7141), Section 2.1, which calls for 
curriculum committee recommendation to formally drop or add an 
academic course. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 6/30/65 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 1/28/81; 4/21/82; 9/12/03 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 12/17/15 
Board Policy: P-7141