COMPENSATION AND SCHEDULE Short-Term Professional Growth 
Leave 
R-9236 
Leaves and Absences 1 of 3 
 
1.0 Requests for Leave - Management and Confidential Employees 
1.1 Employees shall submit requests for Short-Term Professional Growth Leaves 
through appropriate administrative channels to the Chancellor. The supervisor and 
the College President or Chancellor shall attach their recommendations to the 
request. The Chancellor may recommend to the Los Rios Community College 
District Board of Trustees that such a leave be granted. 
1.1.1 The request must state the reason for, the length of, and the beginning date 
of the leave. 
1.1.2 If the leave is to be combined with vacation to constitute leave for a 
semester, the request generally must be submitted six (6) months in 
advance of the date the leave would begin. 
1.1.3 The Human Resources Office shall maintain a schedule of such leaves to 
insure adequate administrative coverage at all times. 
1.1.4 Requests for leaves to attend meetings or conferences shall be sent 
through appropriate administrative channels to the Chancellor for 
approval. 
2.0 Purpose and Length of Short-Term Professional Growth Leave 
2.1 Leave shall not be granted for classes, courses of study, seminars, and training 
institutes that can be scheduled outside the workday. (Ed. Code §§ 87764 and 
88190). 
2.1.1 Leave may be granted to cover time spent outside of class when the 
program is of sufficient intensity that requires the employee to be absent 
for one or more full days.  
2.2 No combination of vacation and short-term professional growth leave shall result 
in an absence in excess of one semester. 
2.3 The Chancellor may grant a leave of absence for attendance at conferences and 
meetings.   
3.0 Coverage During Leave 
3.1 Normally, coverage for the employee on leave will be handled internally and 
temporary replacement will not be hired. 
4.0 Reimbursement for Classes - Management Employees 
4.1 Classes taken outside the District: 

COMPENSATION AND SCHEDULE Short-Term Professional Growth 
Leave 
R-9236 
Leaves and Absences 2 of 3 
 
4.1.1 The District will reimburse tuition fees up to $1,000 a fiscal year, not to 
exceed a lifetime maximum of $3,000, for any management employee 
who enrolls in and completes prior-approved classes with a grade of "C" 
or higher at any accredited college, provided the following criteria have 
been met:  
4.1.1.1 The class has been approved in advance by the President or 
designee at the appropriate college, the appropriate Vice 
Chancellor or designee for non-campus based personnel, and the 
Associate Vice Chancellor, Human Resources for the District 
Office and Facilities Management staff. 
4.1.1.2 The class is related to the unit member's current position, or would 
contribute toward potential promotional opportunities in the 
District. 
4.1.1.3 The class is taken outside the scheduled work assignment and does 
not interfere with the employee's regular work schedule. 
4.1.1.4 The class is not offered through one of the Los Rios colleges. 
4.1.1.5 The employee has submitted the appropriate receipt and grade 
report or transcript with the request for reimbursement within three 
months of the conclusion of the class. 
5.0 Reimbursement for Classes - Confidential Employees 
5.1 Credit classes taken within the District:  
5.1.1 The District will reimburse enrollment fees and cost of books, consistent 
with the dollar limits negotiated for LRCEA members, for any member of 
the Confidential Unit who enrolls in any of the District colleges or 
outreach centers. Classes must be taken outside scheduled work 
assignment, and books must be purchased at a Los Rios bookstore and 
required for the classes taken and completed under this section. Receipts 
and grade reports or transcripts must accompany request for 
reimbursement. Any amount received from selling the book should be 
deducted from the original cost.  
5.2 Classes taken outside the District:  
5.2.1 The District will reimburse tuition fees, consistent with the dollar limits 
negotiated for LRCEA members, for any member of the Confidential Unit 
who enrolls in and completes prior-approved classes with a grade of "C" 
or higher at any accredited college, provided the following criteria have 
been met:  
5.2.1.1 The class has been approved in advance by the President or 
designee at the appropriate college, the appropriate Vice 

COMPENSATION AND SCHEDULE Short-Term Professional Growth 
Leave 
R-9236 
Leaves and Absences 3 of 3 
 
Chancellor or designee for non-campus based personnel, and the 
Associate Vice Chancellor, Human Resources for the District 
Office and Facilities Management staff.  
5.2.1.2 The class is related to the unit member's current position, or would 
contribute toward potential promotional opportunities in the 
District.  
5.2.1.3 The class is taken outside the scheduled work assignment and does 
not interfere with the employee's regular work schedule.  
5.2.1.4 The Class is not offered through one of the Los Rios colleges.  
5.2.1.5 The employee has submitted the appropriate receipt and grade 
report or transcript with the request for reimbursement within three 
months of the conclusion of the class.  
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 2/21/78 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 2/18/81; 6/16/82; 7/5/89; 10/26/98; 1/27/03; 8/23/04; 11/28/05; 
10/24/11 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed:  
Board Policy: P-9236