STUDENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
Standards of Conduct R-2441 
Standards of Conduct and Due Process 1 of 6 
 
1.0 Authority to Suspend or Expel  (Ed. Code, § 76030) 
1.1 The Los Rios Community College District Board of Trustees may expel a student 
for good cause when other means of correction fail to bring about proper conduct 
or when the presence of the student causes a continuing danger to the physical 
safety of the student or others. 
1.1.1 Expulsion is a permanent termination of student status and all attending 
rights and privileges from any and all Los Rios District Community 
District Colleges and facilities. 
1.2 The suspension or expulsion of a student shall be accompanied by a hearing 
pursuant to the requirements of Education Code, section 66017. 
1.2.1 The hearing must be prompt, unless an immediate suspension is required 
in order to protect lives or property, or to insure the maintenance of order. 
1.2.2 In any case, a reasonable opportunity for a hearing must be provided 
within ten (10) calendar days of the suspension or expulsion. 
2.0 Scope of Suspension (Ed. Code, § 76031) 
2.1 The President of a College, may authorize the suspension of a student for good 
cause as follows: 
2.1.1 from one or more classes for a period of up to ten (10) days of instruction; 
2.1.2 from one or more classes for the remainder of the school term; 
2.1.3 from all classes and activities of the College for one or more terms. 
2.1.3.1 Any student suspended pursuant to Section 2.1.3 above shall be 
prohibited from being enrolled in any College or facility in the 
District or participating in any class or program in the District for 
the period of the suspension. 
2.2 An instructor may remove a student from a class for the day of removal and the 
next class meeting. (Ed. Code, § 76032) 
2.2.1 Such removal shall be reported immediately by the instructor to the 
College President or other appropriate College officials. 
2.2.2 If the student removed by an instructor is a minor, the parent or guardian 
of the student shall be requested to attend a parent conference regarding 
the removal as soon as possible. If the instructor or the parent or guardian 
so requests, a College administrator shall attend the conference. 
2.2.3 During the period of removal, a student shall not be returned to the class 
from which he or she was removed without the concurrence of the 

STUDENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
Standards of Conduct R-2441 
Standards of Conduct and Due Process 2 of 6 
 
instructor of the class. 
2.3 Whenever a minor is suspended, the parent or guardian shall be notified in 
writing. 
2.4 Nothing in these Administrative Regulations shall be construed to prohibit the 
imposition of a disciplinary sanction than suspension. 
2.4.1 Such lesser sanctions may include, but need not be limited to, verbal or 
written reprimand, probation or ineligibility to participate in 
extracurricular activities. 
3.0 Good Cause 
3.1 As defined in Education Code, section 76033, good cause includes, but is not 
limited to, the following offenses: 
3.1.1 Continued disruptive behavior, continued willful disobedience, habitual 
profanity or vulgarity, or the open and persistent defiance of the authority 
of, or persistent abuse of, members of the College community. 
3.1.2 Assault, battery, or any threat of force or violence upon members of the 
College community. 
3.1.3 Willful misconduct which results in injury or death to members of the 
College community, or which results in cutting, defacing or other injury to 
any real or personal property owned by the district. 
3.1.4 The use, sale, or possession on campus of, or presence on campus under 
the influence of, any controlled substance. 
3.1.5 Willful or persistent smoking in any area where smoking has been 
prohibited by law or District Policy. 
3.1.6 Persistent, serious misconduct where other means of correction have failed 
to bring about proper conduct. 
3.2 Good cause is further defined, but is not limited to, the following: 
3.2.1 Violation of College rules and regulations including those concerning 
student organizations, the use of College facilities, or the time, place and 
manner of public expression and distribution of materials. 
3.2.2 Obstruction or disruption of teaching, research, administrative disciplinary 
procedures or other College activities, including its community service 
activity, or of other authorized activities on College-controlled premises. 
3.2.3 Theft of or non-accidental damage to property of the college or a member 
of the College community while on campus or at College-sponsored 

STUDENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
Standards of Conduct R-2441 
Standards of Conduct and Due Process 3 of 6 
 
events. 
3.2.4 Unauthorized entry to or use of College facilities. 
3.2.5 Dishonesty, such as cheating, plagiarism or furnishing false information to 
the college, forgery, alteration or misuse of College documents, records or 
identifications. 
3.2.6 Knowing possession or use of explosives, dangerous chemicals or deadly 
weapons on College property or at a college function without prior 
authorization of the College President or designated representative. 
3.2.7 Use, possession, distribution or being under the influence of alcoholic 
beverages, narcotics or dangerous drugs on college property or at College-
sponsored events. 
3.2.8 Soliciting or assisting another to do any act which would subject a student 
to expulsion, suspension, probation or other discipline pursuant to this 
Administrative Regulation. 
3.2.9 Violation of any order of a College President, notice of which has been 
given prior to such violation, and which order is not inconsistent with any 
of the other provisions of this policy. This notice may be given by 
publication in the College newspaper, by posting on an official bulletin 
board designated for this purpose or by any other means reasonably 
calculated to inform students of its provisions. 
3.2.10 Violation of any applicable federal, state, or local public health orders or 
directives, or any District or College requirements in place to help reduce 
the risk of contracting or spreading infectious diseases.  This specifically 
includes any vaccination, face covering, physical distancing, or similar 
requirements that may be adopted or amended from time to time and 
posted or published in a manner reasonably developed to inform students 
of its provisions.   
3.2.11 Attempting to commit an act that would be cause for disciplinary action 
identified in Sections 3.1 or 3.2 above. 
3.3 Whenever any employee is attacked, assaulted or menaced by any student, it is 
the duty of that employee, and the duty of any person under whose direction or 
supervision the employee is employed who has knowledge of the incident, to 
promptly report the incident to the appropriate law enforcement authorities.  (Ed. 
Code, § 87014) 
3.3.1 Failure to make this report is a misdemeanor. 
3.3.2 Any act designed to directly or indirectly discourage or influence a person 
under a duty to make this report is a misdemeanor. 

STUDENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
Standards of Conduct R-2441 
Standards of Conduct and Due Process 4 of 6 
 
3.3.3 Any person who assaults or abuses any academic employee in the 
presence or hearing of a student or college personnel is guilty of a 
misdemeanor. (Ed. Code, § 87708) 
4.0 Computer-Related Crimes 
4.1 A student may be subject to disciplinary sanctions up to and including dismissal 
for commission of any computer-related crimes as specified in Section 502 of the 
Penal Code or as specified in District Policies and Administrative Regulations. 
Such crimes include, but are not limited to, the following: 
4.1.1 Knowingly access and without permission alter, damage, delete, destroy or 
otherwise use any data, computer, computer system or computer network 
in order to either (a) devise or execute any scheme or artifice to defraud, 
deceive or extort, or (b) wrongfully control or obtain money, property or 
data. 
4.1.2 Knowingly access and without permission take, copy or make use of any 
data from a computer, computer system or computer network, or take or 
copy any supporting documentation, whether existing or residing internal 
or external to a computer, computer system or computer network. 
4.1.3 Knowingly and without permission use or cause to be used computer 
services. 
4.1.4 Knowingly access and without permission add, alter, damage, delete or 
destroy any data, computer software or computer programs which reside 
or exist internal or external to a computer, computer system or computer 
network. 
4.1.5 Knowingly and without permission disrupt or cause the disruption of 
computer services or deny or cause the denial of computer services to an 
authorized user of a computer, computer system or computer network. 
4.1.6 Knowingly and without permission provide or assist in providing a means 
of accessing a computer, computer system or computer network in 
violation of this section. 
4.1.7 Knowingly and without permission access or cause to be accessed any 
computer, computer system or computer network. 
4.1.8 Knowingly introduce any computer contaminant into any computer, 
computer system or computer network. 
4.2 No student shall be removed, suspended or expelled unless the conduct for which 
the student is disciplined is related to College activity or College attendance, or 
pursuant to Penal Code, section 502 or other laws specifically authorizing such. 

STUDENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
Standards of Conduct R-2441 
Standards of Conduct and Due Process 5 of 6 
 
5.0 Notification of Law Enforcement Authorities  (Ed. Code, § 76035) 
5.1 The College President, or designee, shall, upon the suspension or expulsion of any 
student, notify the appropriate law enforcement authorities of the county or city in 
which the school is situated of any acts of the student which may be in violation 
of sections 245 or 502 of the Penal Code. 
5.2 Every student who, after a hearing, has been suspended or expelled from a 
College or facility of the District for disrupting the orderly operation of a campus 
or facility, and as a condition of such suspension or expulsion has been denied 
access to the campus or facility, or both, for the period of the suspension, or in the 
case of expulsion for a period not to exceed one (1) year; who has been served by 
registered or certified mail at the last address given by such person with a written 
notice of such suspension or dismissal and condition; and who willfully and 
knowingly enters upon the campus or facility of the institution to which the 
student has been denied access, without the express written permission of the 
Chancellor or the College President is guilty of a misdemeanor. (Penal Code, § 
626.2) 
6.0 Notification of Student 
6.1 A student who has been suspended or expelled from a College or facility of the 
District shall be served written notice by registered or certified mail at the last 
address given by such student. 
6.2 Whenever there is included in any student record information concerning any 
disciplinary action taken by the College or District, the student shall be allowed to 
include in such record a written statement or response concerning the disciplinary 
action. (Ed. Code,  § 76233) 
7.0 Parking Violations  (Ed. Code, §76036) 
7.1 Any violation or violations of law, ordinance, regulation, or rule regulating, or 
pertaining to the parking of vehicles, shall not be cause for the removal, 
suspension or expulsion of a student from a College. 
8.0 Student Indebtedness 
8.1 When a student has not cleared indebtedness to the College after notification has 
been duly given, any of the procedures listed below may be used: 
8.1.1 The student may be suspended until such time as the money is paid or 
reasonable arrangements to pay have been made with the Business 
Services Office. 
8.1.2 The student’s subsequent registration may be suspended until the money 
has been paid or reasonable arrangements have been made at the Business 
Services Office. 

STUDENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
Standards of Conduct R-2441 
Standards of Conduct and Due Process 6 of 6 
 
8.1.3 When all collection attempts have failed, the Business Services Office 
may proceed by taking the claim to Small Claims Court, if applicable. 
8.1.4 Forms for student loan applications shall include a waiver of the statute of 
limitations. 
8.2 The District will not withhold any instructional services from students or former 
students who have been notified in writing at the student’s or former student’s last 
known address that they are in default on a loan or loans under the Federal Family 
Education Loan Program. (Education Code section 66022) 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 6/30/65 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 9/1/65; 4/23/69; 1/7/70; 3/15/73; 11/19/80; 2/10/82; 4/23/85; 
10/29/85; 11/28/89; 11/10/92; 3/6/95; 3/6/96; 9/11/17; 10/28/19 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 2/19/15; 10/28/19 
Board Policy: P-2441