SPECIAL PROGRAMS AND SERVICES 
 
Programs and Services R-2731 
Programs and Services for Students with Disabilities 1 of 4 
 
1.0 Programs and Services for Students with Disabilities 
1.1 Each of the Los Rios Community College District's Colleges will provide 
programs and services to assist students with verifiable disabilities in achieving 
academic success. These programs and services shall include, but not be limited 
to: 
1.1.1 The use of assistive equipment and materials; 
1.1.2 The use of support personnel, such as readers, interpreters and note takers; 
1.1.3 Testing accommodations such as change in location and extension of test 
time; and 
1.1.4 A comprehensive programs and services guide for students with 
disabilities. 
1.2 The programs and services guide(s) for students with disabilities shall provide a 
comprehensive source of information in the appropriate format for students with 
disabilities. 
1.2.1 Each College shall develop its programs and services guide through 
consultation with faculty, management, classified staff and eligible 
students. 
1.2.2 The programs and services guide shall provide information concerning 
district policies and regulations on students’ rights and responsibilities, 
and a comprehensive list of programs and services and contact people at 
the College who can assist students with disabilities. 
1.2.3 The programs and services guide shall be reviewed annually by Disabled 
Student Programs and Services Coordinators to maintain current 
information. 
2.0 Using College Programs and Services 
2.1 It is the student's responsibility to request academic accommodation. 
2.1.1 A student's initial contact with the College will frequently be through an 
individual instructor and, if mutually agreeable, accommodation can be 
developed informally between the student and the instructor. If it is an 
informal accommodation, it is not grievable. 
2.1.2 To arrange a formal accommodation, the student shall contact a Disabled 
Student Programs and Services Specialist (DS). 
2.1.3 The request must include a description of the disability and should include 
the student's requested accommodation. 

SPECIAL PROGRAMS AND SERVICES 
 
Programs and Services R-2731 
Programs and Services for Students with Disabilities 2 of 4 
 
2.1.4 The District may require the student to provide a professional certification 
of disability before proceeding further in the evaluation process. 
2.1.5 If the request is for a course substitution or reconsideration of full time 
student status, the request should be initiated with the Disabled Programs 
and Services Office or the Counseling Office, as appropriate, using the 
appropriate petition. 
2.2 If the student has a history of receiving an accommodation, interim services may 
be provided until the evaluation is completed, based on the judgment of the DS. 
After receiving all necessary information from the student, the DS shall review 
the request to determine the appropriate academic accommodation based on the 
functional limitations of the disability specific to the course or activity. 
2.2.1 The evaluation shall be completed not later than 10 instructional days after 
the student has provided all pertinent materials to the DS. 
2.2.2 The DS shall consider the following general guidelines: 
2.2.2.1 The most successful academic accommodations are those which 
are mutually agreeable to the student and the instructor. 
2.2.2.2 Equal access to college programs and services is the ultimate 
objective, but there may be cases in which reasonable 
accommodation cannot be achieved. 
2.2.2.3 The District is required to provide reasonable accommodation 
only. 
2.2.2.4 Where reasonable accommodation can be provided by multiple 
methods, primary consideration should be given to the student's 
preference. 
2.2.3 The DS shall provide to the student and instructor a written summary of 
the evaluation.  
2.2.4 The student is responsible to initiate discussion to implement the details of 
the accommodation with the instructor and to inform the DS if problems 
occur in the implementation. 
2.3 Either the student or the instructor can appeal the accommodation evaluation of 
the DS. 
2.3.1 Student and instructor appeals shall be filed with the appropriate dean no 
later than five (5) instructional days after issuance of the DS decision. 
2.3.2 The DS accommodation evaluation shall remain in effect during the 
appeal process. 

SPECIAL PROGRAMS AND SERVICES 
 
Programs and Services R-2731 
Programs and Services for Students with Disabilities 3 of 4 
 
2.4 The appeal process shall be as follows: 
2.4.1 The appeal shall be heard by a College Accommodation Appeal Board 
consisting of the appropriate dean, the area dean responsible for the area 
involved in the requested academic accommodation, the ADA/504 
Coordinator and two faculty members appointed by the faculty senate 
president, one of whom should be from the academic area involved in the 
requested academic accommodation. The appropriate dean shall serve as 
the chair of the Accommodation Appeal Board. Neither the instructor, 
student, or disabilities specialist involved in the case will be on the appeals 
board. 
2.4.2 A hearing shall be held before a quorum of the Accommodation Appeal 
Board. 
2.4.3 All relevant evidence shall be admitted.  
2.4.4 The hearing shall be tape recorded by the Chair. The Chair shall erase the 
tape within a reasonable period of time following completion of the appeal 
process. 
2.4.5 The Board shall reach a decision by majority vote. 
2.4.6 The Chair shall issue a written decision within ten (10) instructional days 
of the filing of the appeal with copies to the Vice Presidents, Student 
Services and Instruction, DS involved and the student and the faculty 
member involved, as appropriate. 
2.5 Appeal to Vice President, Student Services 
2.5.1 Within five (5) instructional days of issuance of the decision of the 
Accommodation Appeal Board, the student or the instructor may appeal 
the decision to the Vice President, Student Services. 
2.5.2 The Vice Presidents of Student Services and Instruction will not consider 
any additional testimony. 
2.5.3 The Vice President, Student Services shall confer with the Vice President, 
Instruction and shall review the record and issue an opinion within ten 
(10) instructional days of the requested appeal. The decision of the Vice 
President, Student Services shall be final. 
2.5.4 A student shall not be permitted to file a student grievance on the same set 
of facts. 
2.6 "Veto" of Accommodation Appeal Board Decision 
2.6.1 If it is determined that an undue burden or other extenuating circumstance 
exists, a particular academic accommodation will not be provided. The 

SPECIAL PROGRAMS AND SERVICES 
 
Programs and Services R-2731 
Programs and Services for Students with Disabilities 4 of 4 
 
Vice President, Instruction and Vice President, Student Services shall 
confer and within five (5) days, the Vice President, Student Services may 
reverse or uphold the decision of the Accommodation Appeal Board. 
3.0 College Disabilities Advisory Committee 
3.1 Each College shall establish a Disabilities Advisory Committee to convene at 
least annually to provide input related to programs and services provided at the 
college. 
3.2 The committee may include one or more students with a disability,  community 
representatives, faculty, staff and administration. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 1/11/95 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 11/30/98; 4/27/09; 9/26/11 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed:  
Board Policy: P-2731