INSTRUCTIONAL COMPUTER USE 
 
Statement of Rights and 
Responsibilities  
R-7831 
User Rights, Responsibilities and Ethics 1 of 2 
 
1.0 Statement of Responsibilities 
1.1 This regulation shall apply to all users of the Los Rios Community College 
District Systems. 
1.2 Users must not share their account with others.  With few exceptions, accounts 
are issued to individuals for specific purposes and are not to be shared, unless 
otherwise approved by an Administrator. 
1.3 Users must use computing facilities and services only for the purpose for which 
they were authorized.   
1.3.1 Accounts must not be used for private consulting or sold to other 
individuals.   
1.3.2 Computing and/or networking resources must not be used for direct 
personal financial gain (except for appropriate contract and external 
accounts) or to provide free resources for unauthorized purposes. 
1.4 Users must not attempt to interfere with the normal operation of the system. 
1.5 Users must not attempt to encroach on others' use of computing and/or 
networking facilities or to deprive them of resources. 
1.6 Users must not attempt to subvert the restrictions associated with their computer 
accounts. 
1.7 Users must not attempt unauthorized access of computer installations outside the 
District computers or networking facilities. 
1.8 Use of the Systems is a privilege that shall not be abused.  Users shall be held to a 
high standard of professional behavior by complying with all Policies and 
Administrative Regulations relating to the Systems use. The following are 
examples of unethical and inappropriate use: 
1.8.1 Transmitting unsolicited information which contains obscene, indecent, 
lewd or lascivious material or other material which explicitly or implicitly 
refers to sexual conduct; 
1.8.2 Transmitting unsolicited information which contains profane language or 
panders to bigotry, sexism, or other forms of discrimination; 
1.8.3 Communicating any information concerning any password, identifying 
code, personal identification number or other confidential information 
without the permission of its owner or the controlling authority of the 
computer facility to which it belongs; 
1.8.4 Creating, modifying, executing or retransmitting any computer program or 
instructions intended to gain unauthorized access to, or make unauthorized 
use of a computer facility; 
1.8.5 Creating, modifying, executing or retransmitting any computer program 
instructions intended to obscure the true identity of the sender of 

INSTRUCTIONAL COMPUTER USE 
 
Statement of Rights and 
Responsibilities  
R-7831 
User Rights, Responsibilities and Ethics 2 of 2 
 
electronic mail or electronic messages, collectively referred to as 
"messages" including, but not limited to, forgery of messages and/or 
alteration of system and/or user data used to identify the sender of 
messages; 
1.8.6 Accessing or intentionally destroying software or licensed software in a 
computer facility without the permission of the owner of such software or 
licensed software or the authority of the facility; 
1.8.7 Making unauthorized copies of licensed software; 
1.8.8 Communicating any credit card number or other financial account number 
without the written permission of its owner; 
1.8.9 Violating any laws or participating in the commission or furtherance of 
any crime or other unlawful or improper purpose; 
1.8.10 Using the computer facilities in a manner inconsistent with the District's 
contractual obligations to suppliers of computer facilities or with any 
published District policy; 
1.8.11 Using the Internet to gain unauthorized access to any computer; 
1.8.12 Using computer facilities for work done on behalf of a commercial firm; 
1.8.13 Copying a file from another computer user's account or any recording 
media without permission; 
1.8.14 Copying copyrighted computer software for use on another computer 
without permission of the author or the author’s designated agent; 
1.8.15 Unplugging or reconfiguring computer equipment to make it unusable or 
difficult to use; 
1.8.16 Engaging in personal attacks: writing bullying, intimidating, threatening or 
harassing entries; 
1.8.17 Making threats (directed towards others or yourself) without expecting the 
recipients of those threats, the college, and the police to consider them 
real; and 
1.8.18 Displaying sexually explicit or sexually harassing images or text in a 
public computer facility or location that can potentially be in view of other 
individuals. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 1/27/97 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 9/27/10 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 9/27/10 
Board Policy: P-7831