COMPENSATION AND RELATED BENEFITS 
 
Deferred Compensation R-5324 
Compensation for Services 1 of 3 
 
1.0 Purpose 
1.1 The procedures outlined herein are designed to define and implement the District 
plans relating to deferred compensation. 
1.2 The premise of the plan is to permit tax sheltering of funds for retirement 
purposes with tax deferment until receipt of funds. 
2.0 Deferred Compensation Defined 
2.1 Deferred compensation plan for the Los Rios District is defined as a plan which 
meets the criteria under the guidelines of Revenue Ruling 69-650 and which 
provides for an employee to defer receipt of compensation. (County Counsel 
Opinion 10/18/74) 
3.0 Legal Authorization 
3.1 A "local agency" is a county, city, public district, or any public or municipal 
corporation. (Gov. Code 53212) 
3.2 Each local agency may establish for its officers and employees a deferred 
compensation plan. Participation in such plan is by written agreement between 
such officers and employees and the Governing Board of the local agency which 
shall provide for deferral of a portion of such officers' of employees' wages. (Gov. 
Code 53213) 
3.3 Officers and employees of any local agency having a deferred compensation plan 
may authorize deductions to be made from their wages for the purpose of 
participating in such deferred compensation plan. (Educ. Code 22114) 
3.4 The Governing Board of the District, when drawing an order for the salary 
payment due to employees of the District shall, without charge, reduce the order 
by the amount which it has been requested in a revocable written authorization by 
the employee to deduct for the following purpose: 
 "Participation in a deferred compensation program offered by the college district 
which provides for investments in corporate stocks, bonds, securities, mutual 
funds, or annuities, except as prohibited by the Constitution." 
3.5 Internal Revenue Ruling 69-650 of 1970 provides that a plan must qualify under 
IRS regulations to defer the amount of taxes. 
4.0 Plan Approval/Los Rios 
4.1 An agency submits a deferred compensation plan to the Business Office of the 
District for consideration. Such plan shall have been previously submitted to the 
IRS and shall include a certificate of compliance with IRS Ruling 69-650. The 
plan conforms with provisions of these procedures. 

COMPENSATION AND RELATED BENEFITS 
 
Deferred Compensation R-5324 
Compensation for Services 2 of 3 
 
4.2 Upon receipt of the deferred compensation plan submitted pursuant to 4.1, the 
Chancellor or designee shall make provision for implementing such plan. 
5.0 Implementation 
5.1 Any election by the employee to defer compensation is made prior to the period in 
which the compensation is earned. 
5.2 Retirement credit is given for the total compensation to the employee including 
the deferred compensation. 
5.3 The deferred compensation is held in title by the Los Rios District. The District 
agrees to pay the proceeds to the employee at retirement or termination of 
employment. In the case of death, payment is made to the designated beneficiary. 
5.4 The payment of Federal and State income taxes is deferred until constructive 
receipt of the compensation by the employee. 
6.0 Accounting and Reporting Procedures 
6.1 Not less than annually, an entry of the amount of deferred compensation for 
employees of the District shall be recorded in the general ledger of the District. 
6.2 Not less than annually, the records provided for in 6.1 will be adjusted to reflect 
the current value of deferments. 
6.3 Not less than annually, the investing company shall furnish the District with 
information by employee of the yield or loss of the total value of the account 
during the accounting period. 
6.4 Records for employee compensation deductions will be kept separate from other 
deductions. 
6.5 Provisions for individual record information shall be arranged between the 
District and the investing agency. 
7.0 Letter of Understanding 
7.1 In addition to any agreement form implementing a deferred compensation plan 
that may be approved by the IRS and/or the County Counsel, the District will 
transmit to the employee a letter of understanding. 
7.2 Any letter of understanding transmitted pursuant to 7.1 shall include the following 
minimum information: 
7.2.1 Authority for offering and approval of deferred compensation plan; 
7.2.2 a statement that the District does not recommend any investment but will 
execute the necessary agreements; 

COMPENSATION AND RELATED BENEFITS 
 
Deferred Compensation R-5324 
Compensation for Services 3 of 3 
 
7.2.3 a statement that the District is liable to the employee for the value of the 
investment; 
7.2.4 a statement that the investment can be equal to, less than, or more than the 
amount invested. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 1/22/75 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 9/3/80; 10/20/82; 10/9/00 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed:  
Board Policy: P-5324