INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 
 
Articulation R-7135 
Instructional Arrangements 1 of 2 
 
1.0 Articulation/Transfer Functions  
1.1 The Articulation Officers shall assist in the development and coordinate faculty 
approved articulation agreements between the Los Rios Community College 
District Colleges and post secondary institutions as  well as other government and 
independent educational programs.   
1.2 The Articulation Officers shall serve as the principle contact and liaison between 
the College and other institutions on issues as they relate to the articulation of 
coursework. 
1.3 The Articulation Officers shall serve as a member and resource to the faculty, 
Campus Curriculum Committee and the General Education  Committee in the 
capacity as designated by the campus Curriculum Committee Handbook. 
1.4 The Articulation Officers shall review and confirm the accuracy and information 
in the college catalogs pertaining to the transferability of courses and the general 
education patterns for four-year institutions. 
2.0 Articulation/High School 
2.1 Each College shall designate a principle contact to serve as a liaison between the 
College and proximate high schools to develop, maintain and coordinate faculty 
approved articulation as deemed appropriate. 
2.2 The principle contact designated at each College to serve as a liaison between the 
College and proximate high schools shall review and confirm the accuracy and 
information published in College materials pertaining to the transferability of 
courses and other academics articulated with proximate high schools. 
2.3 An articulated high school course is a course determined by appropriate college 
content area faculty with their academic department to be  comparable to a 
specific community college course. 
2.4 High School articulation agreements shall go through the College Curriculum 
committees for review.  
2.5 The appropriate discipline will establish standards for credit. 
2.6 High School articulation agreements must be reviewed biennially by the College 
and high school/ROP for compliance and through the program review process. 
3.0 Credit by Examination for Articulated High School Courses 
3.1 Students will receive college credit for an articulated high school course that is 
college level by passing an examination determined by college content area 
faculty with their academic department. 

INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 
 
Articulation R-7135 
Instructional Arrangements 2 of 2 
 
3.2 Credits earned through high school articulation courses do not count toward the 
12 semester hours of credit in residence required for an associate degree.   
3.3 Credit and the respective grade and units shall be granted to high school students 
who earn a grade of ‘A’ or ‘B’ in the articulated high school courses and shall be 
clearly noted as such on the student academic record.  
3.4 Articulated high school courses may be accepted by passing an examination 
determined by the college content area faculty with their academic department in 
lieu of comparable community college courses to partially satisfy: 
3.4.1 Requirements for a certificate program 
3.4.2 The major requirements in a degree program 
3.4.3 Elective requirements in a degree program 
3.4.4 General education requirements for an AA/AS degree 
3.5 Any student who successfully completed a high school course that was articulated 
under the terms of a previous agreement and that meets a requirement outlined in 
3.4.1 through 3.4.4 above, shall be permitted to apply the credit so earned 
according to the terms of the previous agreement, under the catalog rights at the 
time the course was taken. 
3.6 For certificates of 12 units or less, not more than three units may be accrued 
through the completion of articulated high school course work. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 8/25/03 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 9/8/08 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 12/17/15 
Board Policy: P-7135