GOVERNANCE 
 
Academic Senate   R-3412 
Participatory Governance 1 of 10 
 
1.0 Senate-Led District Committees 
1.1 Senate-led Los Rios Community College District Committees 
1.1.1 Senate-led Los Rios Community College District Committees (i.e., the 
District Curriculum Coordinating Committee and District Equity and 
Student Success Committee) are under the direction of the District 
Academic Senate and report back to the District Academic Senate on a 
regular basis. Proposals on regulations, policies and procedures from the 
following committees will come first to the District Academic Senate for 
review. The District Academic Senate will send its recommendations to 
the Los Rios Community College District Board of Trustees and/or its 
representative and all other recommendations to the Chancellor or 
designee. 
1.2  District Curriculum Coordinating Committee (DCCC) 
1.2.1 Purpose: To provide recommendations to the Board of Trustees and/or its 
representative on District-wide curriculum matters. 
1.2.2 Areas of Responsibility: 
1.2.2.1 Review College proposals for new and deleted courses/programs 
prior to their recommendation to the Board of Trustees or its 
representatives; 
1.2.2.2 Coordinate the review of District-wide graduation competencies 
prior to making recommendations to the Board of Trustees and its 
representative; 
1.2.2.3 Review District-wide general education requirements for associate 
and associate for transfer degrees; 
1.2.2.4 Work toward consensus on those curriculum issues having 
implications for two (2) or more Colleges; 
1.2.2.5 Develop and review District grading procedures;  
1.2.2.6 Place courses into disciplines; and 
1.2.2.7 Perform other duties related to curriculum. 
1.2.3 Committee Composition: The District Curriculum Coordinating 
Committee will consist of the following: 
1.2.3.1 Three (3) faculty members from each College recommended for 
appointment by the College Academic Senate President and 
appointed by the District Academic Senate President; 

GOVERNANCE 
 
Academic Senate   R-3412 
Participatory Governance 2 of 10 
 
1.2.3.2 One (1) District Academic Senate representative appointed by the 
District Academic Senate President; 
1.2.3.3 The Vice President of Instruction or designee from each College; 
1.2.3.4 The Deputy Chancellor or designee, who serves as Administrative 
Liaison Officer; 
1.2.3.5 One (1) student representative from each College, nominated by 
the Student Advisory Committee; 
1.2.3.6 One (1) Articulation Officer appointed by the District Academic 
Senate President; and 
1.2.3.7 The Chair, a non-voting faculty member determined by the rotation 
noted in 1.2.4. 
1.2.4 The Chair shall serve for two academic years from June 1 through May 31 
by College on a rotating basis in alphabetic order based on the College 
name.  
1.2.4.1 When the Chair is selected from the existing membership of the 
DCCC, that position will be backfilled by appointment of a new 
member by the College Academic Senate President. 
1.2.4.2 The Chair will serve as an ex officio member of the District 
Academic Senate. 
1.2.5 The Chair-Elect of the Committee will be a faculty member recommended 
by the Curriculum Committee and the local Academic Senate President of 
the College next in line to chair the DCCC, and appointed by the District 
Academic Senate President.  
1.2.5.1 The Chair-elect will be appointed in the spring semester of the 
second year of the Chair’s term. 
1.2.5.2 The Chair-elect shall be trained by the Chair during the second 
year of the Chair’s term. 
1.2.6 All members of the Committee are voting members except the Chair and 
the Chair-elect, unless the Chair-elect is a current voting member. 
1.2.7 DCCC agendas and minutes shall be routinely posted to the District 
Academic Senate webpage. 
1.2.8 Competency Committees: 

GOVERNANCE 
 
Academic Senate   R-3412 
Participatory Governance 3 of 10 
 
1.2.8.1 The District Curriculum Coordinating Committee shall call for a 
review of Reading, Writing and Mathematics competencies once 
per semester or on an interim basis as needed. 
1.2.8.2 The DCCC shall designate a faculty chair to preside over a 
committee for each area of Mathematics, Writing and Reading 
competency. The initial selection of the chair shall be by random 
selection and shall rotate every two years to the next College in 
alphabetical order. The District Academic Senate shall keep the 
official record of each of the faculty chairs. The composition of 
each of the committees is the following: 
1.2.8.2.1 One (1) dean or an appropriate administrator from each 
College (subject area); 
1.2.8.2.2 One (1) subject matter faculty member from each 
College, selected by the Academic Senate President; 
1.2.8.2.3 One (1) related subject matter faculty member from 
each College, selected by the Academic Senate 
President; 
1.2.8.2.4 One (1) counselor from the College of the chair, 
selected by the College Academic Senate President; 
1.2.8.2.5 The faculty chair shall be appointed by the District 
Academic Senate President to preside over the 
committee; and 
1.2.8.2.6 The competency standards are set forth in 
Administrative Regulation (R-7241). 
1.2.8.3 Reports from the Competency Committees will be made at the 
District Curriculum Coordinating Committee.   The DCCC will 
rely primarily upon those recommendations. The course outline of 
record will contain the new competency designation and shall be 
forwarded to the Board of Trustees for approval. In lieu of 
submitting the course outline of record, the DCCC chair may make 
a separate report of all competency changes and submit that to the 
Board of Trustees for approval. 
1.2.9 Subcommittees: The committee shall form the appropriate sub-committees 
necessary to carry out the tasks associated with its responsibilities.  
1.3 District Equity and Student Success Committee (DESSC) 
1.3.1 Purpose: To provide recommendations to the District Academic Senate 
and advise the Board of Trustees or its representatives on matters related 
to District-wide issues of equity in our education system, including 

GOVERNANCE 
 
Academic Senate   R-3412 
Participatory Governance 4 of 10 
 
initiative and legislation, and those of student support services and 
technologies designed to onboard students and move them through to 
completion.  
1.3.2 Areas of Responsibility: 
1.3.2.1 Recommend policy related to issues of equity in our educational 
system, including initiative and legislation, and to student support 
services and technologies related to onboarding students to a 
college and moving them through the college to successful goal 
completion as defined in Title 5 regulations; 
1.3.2.2 Examine those areas relating to issues of equity in our educational 
system, including initiative and legislation, and those of support 
services and technologies related to onboarding student to a 
college and moving them through the college to successful goal 
completion which impact two (2) or more Colleges and support the 
effort to work toward consensus;  
1.3.2.3 Convene and adopt existing workgroups which pertain to issues of 
equity in our educational system, including initiative and 
legislation and to student support services and technologies related 
to onboarding student to a college and moving them through the 
college to successful goal completion; and 
1.3.2.4 Develop recommendations related to issues of equity in our 
educational system, including initiative and legislation, and to 
student support services and technologies related to onboarding 
students to a college and moving them through the college to 
successful goal completion that are assigned to the committee by  
the District Academic Senate or by the Board of Trustees or its 
representatives. 
1.3.3 Committee Composition:  
1.3.3.1 All appointments are for two-year terms; all members are voting 
members, except the Chair who will vote only in the event of a tie. 
1.3.3.2 Membership  
a) The DESSC chair is a faculty member appointed by the 
District Academic Senate President to serve a two-year term 
following the academic calendar. The DESSC Chair must have 
served as al College Committee Chair. The Chair shall serve 
for two academic years from June 1 through May 31 in a 
rotating basis by College as follows: SCC, FLC, CRC, and 
ARC. The faculty chair is the representative of the District 
Academic Senate. 

GOVERNANCE 
 
Academic Senate   R-3412 
Participatory Governance 5 of 10 
 
b) One (1) faculty member from each college and (1) classified 
member from each college who are involved in equity efforts 
(examples: equity coordinator disproportionate impact 
workgroup, student equity committee chair), and/or core 
matriculation services, and/or serving on a workgroup 
designed to facilitate academic goal completion, appointed by 
the appropriate district governance group’s president.   
c) One (1) counseling faculty member from each College 
Appointed by the District Academic Senate President.  
d) The Associate Vice Chancellor of Education Services, or 
designee, who serves as the Administrative Liaison Officer.  
e) One (1) student representative from each College, appointed 
by the Associated Student Government. Up to two (2) 
additional students from each College to serve as designees of 
the appointed student representative.  
f) Two (2) Vice Presidents of Student Services, or designees, to 
serve on a two-year term on a rotational basis: as follows: 
CRC & ARC; SCC & FLC.  
1.3.4 Subcommittees: The DESSC shall form the appropriate subcommittees it 
deems necessary to carry out the tasks associated with its responsibilities 
included in 1.3.2.  
1.3.5 Through its representatives on these committees, the District Academic 
Senate may request assistance from the committee in carrying out the 
District Academic Senate's task of making broad policy recommendations 
on academic and professional matters, as outlined in Title 5, Section 
53200 (c) (1)-(11). 
1.3.6 Meetings: The committee shall meet at least once per month during the 
fall and spring semesters and may call additional meetings as necessary.  
1.3.7 Voting: Members of the DESSC shall act as representatives of their local 
College areas or divisions. Members shall share vital information with all 
affected parties in a timely way pursuant to Board Policy 3412, Section 
5.0. Feedback may be gathered electronically in order to expedite the 
process. Members shall vote based upon their College areas’ interests. 
Abstentions must be formally stated. Lack of response shall not be 
considered an abstention. The majority of yes or no votes shall constitute a 
decision.  

GOVERNANCE 
 
Academic Senate   R-3412 
Participatory Governance 6 of 10 
 
2.0 Non-Senate Led District Committees 
2.1 Non-Senate Los Rios Community College District Committees are under the 
direction of the Chancellor.   
2.1.1 Academic Calendar Committee (See R-7123). 
2.1.2 District Budget Committee (See R-8122). 
2.1.3 Educational Technology Committee. 
2.1.3.1 Purpose: To discuss and make recommendations on District-wide 
issues and initiatives related to educational technology, broadly 
defined as classroom, laboratory or faculty computing; classroom 
multi-media, and distance education.  
2.1.3.2 Areas of Responsibility: To explore and provide input to the 
appropriate District committees and constituent leaders on the 
following subjects:  
a) Classroom/lab and distance education software, equipment, 
and infrastructure planning, selection, and implementation; 
b) Accreditation distance education policy implementation 
requirements; 
c) Student support for using educational technology; 
d) Educational technology tools and strategies; 
e) Non-classroom faculty technology tools (e.g. online grading); 
f) Classroom and student related data security, FERPA 
compliance; 
g) Institutional research regarding educational technology; 
h) Faculty training related to areas of responsibility for this 
committee; 
i) Input to District IT’s Technology Plan; and 
j) Input to District Board Policies and Regulations which address 
educational technology issues. 
2.1.4 Committee Composition: 
2.1.4.1 The Deputy Chancellor or designee is appointed by the 
Chancellor and serves as committee co-chair; 

GOVERNANCE 
 
Academic Senate   R-3412 
Participatory Governance 7 of 10 
 
2.1.4.2 One (1) District Academic Senate representative 
appointed by the District Academic Senate President 
and serves as committee co-chair; 
2.1.4.3 Twelve (12) at-large faculty members, three (3) from 
each College, appointed by the District Academic 
Senate President; 
2.1.4.4 Four (4) instructional development/distance education 
coordinators, one (1) from each College appointed by 
the District Academic Senate President; 
2.1.4.5 Four (4) College administrators, one (1) from each 
College, appointed by the College President; 
2.1.4.6 One (1) Librarian, appointed by the Colleges in two-
year rotation cycle (ARC, CRC, FLC, SCC); and 
2.1.4.7 Two (2) District IT representatives, appointed by the 
Deputy Chancellor.  
2.1.4.8 One (1) representative appointed by the Los Rios 
College Federation of Teachers. 
2.1.5 Procedures for Reporting to the Representative Constituency Groups: 
Committee members are responsible for providing regular committee 
updates to their constituency groups and to soliciting input for use by the 
Educational Technology Committee as requested by the committee co-
chairs. The co-chairs will post electronic committee notes or minutes on a 
regular basis.  
2.1.6 International Education Committee  
2.1.6.1 Purpose: To discuss and make recommendation on District-wide 
issues and initiatives related to international education, broadly 
defined as international students attending Los Rios Colleges, 
student Study Abroad programs, faculty study abroad and 
exchange opportunities, and strategies to enhance global studies 
programs and activities.  
2.1.6.2 Areas of Responsibility: To explore, discuss best practices, and 
provide input to the appropriate District Committees and 
constituent leaders on the following subjects:  
a) Best practices on developing programs and services for 
international students enrolled in Los Rios Colleges, including 
how to better integrate them into the Colleges; 
b) Input to Los Rios student Study Abroad programs;  

GOVERNANCE 
 
Academic Senate   R-3412 
Participatory Governance 8 of 10 
 
c) Input to faculty study abroad and exchange opportunities; 
d) Best practices to integrate global awareness throughout the 
curriculum and in College activities; 
e) Best practices to enhance student internships with local 
companies and agencies working with international partners or 
projects; 
f) Faculty and staff training related to the areas of responsibility 
for this committee; and 
g) Input to District Board Policies and Regulations which address 
international education issues. 
2.1.6.3 Committee Composition:  
2.1.6.3.1 The Vice Chancellor of Education and Technology is 
appointed by the Chancellor and serves as committee 
co-chair; 
2.1.6.3.2 One (1) District Academic Senate representative 
appointed by the District Academic Senate President to 
serve as committee co-chair; 
2.1.6.3.3 Eight (8) faculty members, two (2) from each College 
recommended by the College Academic Senate 
President for appointment by the District Academic 
Senate President; 
2.1.6.3.4 Two (2) classified staff members recommended for 
appointment by his or her College’s Classified Senate 
President; 
2.1.6.3.5 Four (4) College administrators, one (1) from each 
College, appointed by the College President; and 
2.1.6.3.6 One (1) College administrator, who serves as the 
District-wide Study Abroad Coordinator.  
2.1.6.4 Procedures for Reporting to the Representative Constituency 
Groups: Committee members are responsible for providing regular 
committee updates to their constituency groups and soliciting input 
for use by the International Educational Committee as requested by 
the committee co-chairs. The co-chairs will post electronic 
committee notes or minutes on a regular basis.  

GOVERNANCE 
 
Academic Senate   R-3412 
Participatory Governance 9 of 10 
 
2.2 All non-senate led District-wide committees are advisory to the Chancellor and 
will not address matters within the scope of collective bargaining unless otherwise 
agreed to under the collective bargaining contract. 
2.2.1 Each District-wide committee will be periodically reviewed by the 
Chancellor’s Cabinet.  The Cabinet may make recommendations to the 
Chancellor concerning composition, continuance and charge of the 
committee.  If the recommendation of the Chancellor’s Cabinet is not 
accepted by the Chancellor then the Chancellor will forward a written 
reply which states the reasons for not accepting the committee's 
recommendation.  
2.2.2 Proposals to establish new, District-wide committees will be developed by 
the constituencies of the Chancellor’s Cabinet.  These proposals will 
include but not be limited to the following elements: 
a) Purpose; 
b) Area(s) of responsibility; 
c) Committee membership; 
d) Appointment process for members; and 
e) Procedures for reporting to the representative constituency groups. 
2.2.2.1 The Chancellor’s Cabinet will review each proposal and make a 
recommendation to the Chancellor. 
2.2.2.2 The Chancellor will decide whether to authorize and implement 
the recommendation of the Cabinet. 
2.2.2.3 If the recommendation of the Cabinet is not accepted by the 
Chancellor, then the Chancellor will forward a written reply which 
states the reasons for not accepting the committee's 
recommendation.  
2.2.3 Each District-wide committee will have an administrator co-chair 
appointed by the Chancellor and faculty co-chair appointed by the District 
Academic Senate President unless otherwise specified. 
2.2.4 District Committees may establish subcommittees and/or task forces 
within their charge. The Chancellor’s Cabinet must be informed of the 
development of any subcommittees and/or task forces. Any proposed 
change of committee charge or a substantive alteration must be approved 
by the Chancellor’s Cabinet. 

GOVERNANCE 
 
Academic Senate   R-3412 
Participatory Governance 10 of 10 
 
2.2.5 The Chancellor’s Cabinet may form temporary task forces or 
subcommittees to address educational issues that are not otherwise 
addressed by existing District Committees. 
2.3 The appointment of faculty members to serve on District committees, task forces, 
or other groups shall be made by the College or District Academic Senates or, 
when appropriate, by the collective bargaining representative. 
2.4 A District list describing the District Committees and their subcommittees and/or 
task forces will be updated and published annually by the Chancellor or designee. 
2.4.1 The list will be widely distributed and all members of the Chancellor’s 
Cabinet will receive copies. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 5/6/92 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 4/28/97, 6/16/98; 11/6/00; 5/10/04; 11/17/08; 4/29/13; 2/24/20; 
2/26/24 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 4/29/13; 2/24/20; 2/26/24 
Board Policy: P-3412