EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Discrimination and 
Harassment Complaint 
Procedures 
R-5172 
Employment Policies 1 of 7 
 
1.0 Discrimination and Harassment Complaints  
1.1 The Los Rios Community College District and each College shall designate 
Equity Officers whose responsibilities shall include the investigation and 
resolution of discrimination and harassment complaints, including complaints of 
sexual harassment, as identified in District Policies P-5172 and P-5173. (Title 5, § 
59324) Equity Officers shall have the appropriate qualifications and training to 
investigate and resolve these complaints. 
1.2 The complaint shall be filed by a student or employee who alleges that he or she 
has personally suffered discrimination or harassment, or by an individual who has 
learned of such discrimination or harassment in his or her official capacity 
(complainant); for example, a counselor, a supervisor, or an administrator. (Title 
5, §59328) In addition, complaints may be initiated by other individuals or 
entities, such as a family member, representative, organization, or other third 
party wishing to file on behalf of an individual or group alleged to have suffered 
discrimination or harassment. 
1.3 A complaint shall be filed with the State Chancellor’s Office, the District, or the 
applicable College. (Title 5, § 59328 (b)) 
1.4 The District shall provide annual notice of this District Policy against 
discrimination and harassment to new employees when they start working, and all 
current employees.   
1.4.1 Posters that contain the basic legal requirements shall be posted in places 
readily accessible to job applicants, and existing employees. Notices may 
also be distributed by electronic means. 
1.5 Generally, the Equity Officer for the College at which the reported conduct 
occurred or where a complaint is filed shall oversee the investigation and 
resolution of the complaint. For matters occurring at the District Office or other 
non-college locations, the Equity Officer at the District Office shall usually 
oversee the investigation and resolution of the complaint.  The Associate Vice 
Chancellor of Human Resources, however, may change the Equity Officer 
assigned to the matter in the following circumstances: 
1.5.1 Where the College or Equity Officer at the District has a conflict of 
interest.  
1.5.2 Where the College or Equity Officer at the District workload requires a 
change.  
1.5.3 Where extenuating circumstances exist.  Examples of extenuating 
circumstances include: a high level manager has been accused of 
misconduct; complex facts and circumstances exist that require significant 
time or effort; or other reasons that call for the change in the assignment.   

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Discrimination and 
Harassment Complaint 
Procedures 
R-5172 
Employment Policies 2 of 7 
 
2.0 Complaint Procedures 
2.1 As soon as possible after the alleged incident, the complainant shall notify the 
appropriate Equity Officer(s) of the alleged discrimination or harassment.   
2.2 Following consultation with the Director, Human Resources, the Equity Officer 
may reject the complaint if: 
2.2.1 The complaint is anonymous; 
2.2.2 The most recent incident was more than one (1) year ago or more than one 
hundred eighty (180) calendar days ago for an employment case; 
2.2.3 The complaint does not allege discrimination or harassment; 
2.2.4 The complainant lacks adequate information on which to conduct an 
investigation, in which case, the complainant shall be advised of the 
defect(s). (A complaint that provides sufficient information to state a 
viable claim of discrimination or harassment shall not be rejected.); 
2.2.5 Identical allegations have already been investigated; or 
2.2.6 The case does not merit investigation for any other reason as determined 
by the Director, Human Resources pursuant to California Code of 
Regulations, Title 5. 
2.3 If a complaint is rejected, the complainant shall be notified and informed of the 
deficiency. (Title 5, § 59332)  
2.4 If the complaint is accepted, the Equity Officer shall:  
2.4.1 Advise the complainant that he or she need not participate in informal 
resolution and that he or she shall not be required to confront, or work out 
problems with, the person accused of discrimination or harassment 
(respondent); (Title 5, § 59327) 
2.4.2 Notify the complainant of the procedure for filing a complaint with the 
State Chancellor’s Office; 
2.4.3 Advise the complainant that he or she may file a complaint with the Office 
of Civil Rights of the U. S. Department of Education (OCR); 
2.4.4 Advise the complaint that he or she may file his or her employment-based 
complaint with the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission 
(EEOC) and/or the California Department of Fair Employment and 
Housing (DFEH), where the complaint is within the  jurisdiction of those 
agencies; 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Discrimination and 
Harassment Complaint 
Procedures 
R-5172 
Employment Policies 3 of 7 
 
2.4.5 Give the complainant a copy of the District Discrimination and 
Harassment Complaint Procedures Policy and Administrative Regulation 
(P/R-5172) and the District Sexual Harassment Policy (P-5173), if 
appropriate;   
2.4.6 Undertake efforts to informally resolve the charges if the complainant so 
desires; 
2.4.7 Advise both the complainant and the respondent that retaliation is 
prohibited, by District Policy and the law, against anyone who refers a 
matter for investigation, files a complaint, participates in an investigation, 
or represents the complainant or respondent. (Title 5, § 59327) 
2.5 The Equity Officer shall consider whether interim remedial measures are 
necessary during the investigation process to assist or protect the parties. Interim 
remedial measures may include arranging for course schedule changes, issuing 
no-contact order(s), notifying the complainant of his or her right to avoid the 
respondent, or assisting in obtaining counseling or law enforcement assistance. 
For employees, interim measures can include a temporary reassignment or placing 
an employee on administrative leave in compliance with District Policy and the 
relevant collective bargaining agreement. 
3.0 Informal Process (Title 5, § 59327) 
3.1 If the complainant so desires, the Equity Officer shall hold an informal conference 
with the complainant within seven (7) calendar days from the date the oral or 
written complaint is filed. Information about the applicable law and rules shall be 
presented to the complainant. An effort shall be made to resolve the complaint at 
the informal level. Mediation shall not be used for allegations of sexual violence. 
3.2 If a resolution of the complaint is not reached or if the complainant disagrees with 
the recommendation made, then the complainant may follow the resolution 
procedure outlined in section 4.0 below. 
3.3 This informal procedure shall generally be completed within ninety (90) calendar 
days. 
3.4 If a complaint is accepted for the informal process, the College/District Equity 
Officer shall notify the Associate Vice Chancellor of Human Resources that the 
informal process is being used. 
3.5  Prior to the implementation of any informal resolution, the equity officer shall 
notify the Associate Vice Chancellor of Human Resources of the proposed 
resolution and Associate Vice Chancellor of Human Resources shall have the 
right to direct that the matter proceed to the formal process in cases where the 
informal resolution is not appropriate. 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Discrimination and 
Harassment Complaint 
Procedures 
R-5172 
Employment Policies 4 of 7 
 
4.0 Formal Process  
4.1 If the complaint is not resolved satisfactorily at the informal stage or if the 
complainant chooses not to use the informal process, the complainant may file 
with the Equity Officer(s) a written statement of the problem and his/her proposed 
remedy on the form prescribed by the State Chancellor’s Office. This form shall 
be provided to the complainant by the appropriate Equity Officer(s). 
Complainants should be encouraged to use this form; however, the form is not 
required and complaints shall not be considered defective or rejected based on the 
failure to file the complaint on the form. In any complaint not involving 
employment, the formal complaint shall be filed not later than one (1) year from 
the date on which the complainant knew or should have known of the facts 
underlying the allegation of discrimination or sexual harassment. In any 
complaint involving employment, the complaint shall be filed not later than one 
hundred eighty (180) calendar days from the date on which the complainant knew 
or should have known of the facts underlying the allegation of discrimination or 
sexual harassment. (Title 5, § 59328) 
4.2 The College Equity Officer shall forward the formal complaint and all other 
pertinent information to the College President immediately upon receipt. (Title 5, 
§ 59330) 
4.2.1 The formal complaint shall be forwarded to the Equity Officer, who shall 
notify the State Chancellor’s Office and the complainant that the 
complaint has been filed and that the investigation is being conducted 
pursuant to California Code of Regulations, title 5, section 59334. 
4.2.2 A prompt, thorough and impartial fact-finding investigation of the 
complaint shall be conducted, which includes meeting with the respondent 
and interviewing any witnesses to the alleged conduct and other person(s) 
the investigator determines may have relevant information. To the greatest 
extent possible, confidentiality shall be maintained. Failure to cooperate in 
or interference with this investigation may be grounds for appropriate 
disciplinary action.  
4.2.3 The investigator shall determine by a “preponderance of the evidence” 
whether there is probable cause to believe discrimination or harassment 
occurred as to each allegation of the complaint. A preponderance of the 
evidence means the evidence, when weighed with the evidence opposed to 
it, has the more convincing force and the greater probability of truth. 
4.2.4 It is the District’s intent to investigate and resolve the complaint within 
sixty (60) calendar days from filing of the formal complaint, although this 
is not always possible given the complexity of the allegations and the 
workload of the Equity Officers. This investigation shall be completed 
within ninety (90) calendar days of the receipt of the formal complaint, 
unless an extension is granted by the State Chancellor’s Office. (Title 5, § 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Discrimination and 
Harassment Complaint 
Procedures 
R-5172 
Employment Policies 5 of 7 
 
59336) 
4.2.5 The results of the investigation shall be put in a written report which shall 
include at least all of the following: 
4.2.5.1 A description of the circumstances giving rise to the complaint; 
4.2.5.2 A summary and an analysis of the testimony provided by each 
witness, including the complainant and any witnesses provided by 
the complainant in the complaint, and any statements by the 
respondent; 
4.2.5.3 A summary and an analysis of any relevant data or other non-
testimonial evidence collected during the course of the 
investigation; 
4.2.5.4 A specific finding as to whether there is probable cause that 
discrimination or harassment did or did not occur with respect to 
each allegation in the complaint; 
4.2.5.5 If there is probable cause that discrimination or harassment 
occurred, the written report should include what action(s) shall be 
taken to stop it (as consistent with privacy and legal requirements), 
prevent its reoccurrence, and remedy the effects on the 
complainant and any others in the College community, as 
necessary; and 
4.2.5.6 Any other information deemed appropriate by the District. (Title 5, 
§ 59334) 
4.3 Upon completion of the investigation and within the ninety (90) calendar-day 
timeline and any extension, the District shall forward all of the following to the 
complainant: 
4.3.1 A summary of the investigative report; and 
4.3.2 A written notice setting forth the following: 
4.3.2.1 The determination of the College President as to whether there is 
probable cause that discrimination or harassment did or did not 
occur with respect to each allegation in the complaint; 
4.3.2.2 If there is probable cause that discrimination or harassment 
occurred, a description of actions taken, if any, to prevent similar 
problems from occurring in the future; 
4.3.2.3 The proposed resolution of the complaint; and 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Discrimination and 
Harassment Complaint 
Procedures 
R-5172 
Employment Policies 6 of 7 
 
4.3.2.4 The complainant’s right to submit a written appeal to the Los Rios 
Community College District Board of Trustees within fifteen (15) 
calendar days of the receipt of the notice, if the complainant is not 
satisfied with the results of the administrative determination. (Title 
5, §§ 59336, 59338) 
4.4 Upon completion of the investigation, and within the ninety (90) calendar-day 
timeline and any extension, the District shall forward a summary of the 
investigative report to the respondent. In cases of sexual assault, domestic 
violence, dating violence or stalking, the District shall forward the summary of 
the investigative report to the respondent at the same time it forwards it to the 
complainant. The witnesses shall be advised of the conclusion of the investigation 
but not the results. 
4.5 If an appeal is filed, the Board of Trustees shall review the original complaint, the 
investigative report, the administrative determination, and the appeal, and shall 
issue a final District decision in the matter within forty-five (45) calendar days 
after receiving the appeal. (Title 5, § 59338) 
4.5.1 Upon receipt of an appeal, the General Counsel is authorized to remand 
the case back to the Equity Officer for further review if the General 
Counsel finds that the investigation has not been completed properly. The 
General Counsel shall notify the complainant and the respondent that the 
matter has been remanded and that the complainant shall have the right to 
renew the appeal by submitting a written appeal to the Los Rios 
Community College District Board of Trustees within fifteen (15) 
calendar days of the receipt of the notice the investigation has been 
completed. 
4.5.2 On appeal: 
4.5.2.1 The Board of Trustees shall review findings of fact for abuse of 
discretion; 
4.5.2.2  The Board of Trustees may review conclusions based upon those 
facts without regard to the conclusions of the investigative report;  
4.5.2.3 The Board of Trustees may review the District’s procedural 
compliance with this regulation without regard to the conclusion of 
the investigative report; 
4.5.2.4 New evidence may not be submitted for the first time on appeal. 
4.5.3 In any case not involving employment discrimination a copy of the final 
District decision rendered by the Board of Trustees shall be forwarded to 
the complainant and to the State Chancellor’s Office. (Title 5, § 59338) 
4.5.4 In any case not involving employment discrimination the complainant 
shall also be notified of his or her right to appeal this decision to the State 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Discrimination and 
Harassment Complaint 
Procedures 
R-5172 
Employment Policies 7 of 7 
 
Chancellor’s Office within thirty (30) calendar days after the Board of 
Trustees issues the final District decision; or permits the administrative 
determination to become final by failure to act within forty-five (45) 
calendar days of receipt of the appeal. (Title 5, § 59339) 
5.0 Final Notification to State Chancellor’s Office 
5.1 In any case not involving employment discrimination, the District shall, within 
one hundred fifty (150) calendar days of receiving a complaint, forward to the 
State Chancellor’s Office the original complaint, the report describing the nature 
and extent of the investigation conducted by the District, a copy of the notice sent 
to the complainant (see section 2.5.5 above), a copy of the final District decision 
rendered by the Board of Trustees or a statement indicating the date on which the 
administrative determination became final, and any other information the State 
Chancellor’s Office may require. (Title 5, § 59340) 
5.2 If the District, for reasons beyond its control, is unable to comply with the 
timelines required under section 5.1 above, the District may file a written request 
with the State Chancellor’s Office no later than ten (10) calendar days prior to the 
expiration of the deadline, requesting an extension. A copy of the request shall be 
sent to complainant with a notice that he or she may file written objections with 
the State Chancellor’s Office within five (5) calendar days of receipt. (Title 5, § 
59342) 
6.0 Documentation and Reporting 
6.1 The Equity Officer shall keep a log of all discrimination or harassment complaints 
and the resolution thereof. 
6.2 Responsible employees are those employees who have the authority to take action 
to redress sexual violence or whom an employee could reasonable believe has that 
authority. All responsible employees, Equity Officers, and Los Rios Community 
College Police Captains shall report all incidents of sexual discrimination, sexual 
harassment, or sexual violence to the Title IX Officer responsible for the 
District/College location at which the conduct has occurred or has an effect. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 8/15/79 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 10/15/80; 9/10/81; 10/20/82; 2/21/90; 5/12/92; 4/28/03; 9/17/07; 
2/23/15; 3/27/17; 10/23/17; 9/24/18 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 3/27/17; 10/23/17; 9/24/18 
Board Policy: P-5172; P-5173