EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Equivalency to Minimum 
Qualifications 
R-5123 
Recruitment and Appointment 1 of 6 
 
1.0 Minimum Qualifications for Faculty Hire 
1.1 The minimum qualifications for hire are those included in the list of disciplines 
most recently adopted by the Los Rios Community College District Board of 
Trustees. 
2.0 Criteria for Equivalencies 
2.1 Equivalency criteria are common across the Los Rios Community College District 
according to the framework of minimum qualifications criteria. (See 3.0 below) 
2.2 For disciplines requiring a master’s degree, the applicant must possess at least a 
bachelor’s degree with either graduate course work or verifiable experience 
depending upon the discipline being considered. For disciplines which do not 
require a master’s, the applicant must possess at least an associate degree to 
demonstrate the breadth required of a college instructor. 
2.3 These criteria, together with records of past equivalency decisions in the 
discipline, will be made available as needed to the screening committees to aid in 
their deliberations. 
3.0 Framework for Minimum Qualifications Equivalency Criteria 
3.1 Because the State has established two (2) sets of disciplines, one using the 
master’s degree for subject areas where a master’s degree is generally available, 
and one not using the master’s degree for disciplines where proficiency is 
frequently gained outside a degree track, the District framework for minimum 
qualifications’ equivalency contains two sets of criteria. All degrees and course 
work must be from colleges/universities accredited by an accreditation agency 
recognized by either the U.S. Department of Education or the Council on 
Postsecondary Accreditation. An accredited institution is not an institution 
“approved” by the California Department of Education or by the California 
Council for Private Postsecondary and Vocational Education. 
3.1.1 For Disciplines Requiring the Master’s Degree 
3.1.1.1 Master’s degree in any discipline, plus course work equivalent to a 
graduate major in the discipline of the assignment. (30 semester 
units of graduate and upper division units, of which at least 15 
units must be graduate.) 
3.1.1.2 Bachelor’s degree in the discipline of the assignment, plus 
additional post baccalaureate course work equivalent to a graduate 
major in the discipline of the assignment. (30 units of upper 
division and graduate units, of which at least 15 units must be 
graduate.) 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Equivalency to Minimum 
Qualifications 
R-5123 
Recruitment and Appointment 2 of 6 
 
3.1.1.3 For the Performing Arts: A bachelor’s degree in the discipline plus 
advanced degree from an institution specific to that art, or four (4) 
years of professional experience in the discipline. 
3.1.1.4 A bachelor’s degree in the discipline, plus licensure by an 
appropriate state agency, plus at least two (2) years of professional 
experience unless specifically precluded by the adopted list of 
disciplines. 
3.1.1.5 Recognized accomplishments which demonstrate expertise and 
skill in the field of study beyond that normally achieved through 
formal education (equivalent to the eminence credential). 
3.1.2 For Disciplines Not Requiring the Master’s Degree 
3.1.2.1 Bachelor’s degree in a discipline reasonably related to the 
discipline of the assignment, plus two (2) years of full-time 
teaching experience in the discipline of the assignment at an 
accredited institution, plus appropriate certification to practice or 
licensure, if available. 
3.1.2.2 Bachelor’s degree in any discipline, plus course work equivalent to 
a major in the discipline of the assignment, plus two (2) years of 
occupational experience related to the discipline of the assignment 
or two (2) years of teaching experience in the discipline of the 
assignment, plus appropriate certification to practice or licensure, 
if available.1 
3.1.2.3 Associate degree containing at least 60 units in any discipline, plus 
graduation from an institution specific to that field, plus two (2) 
years of professional experience in the discipline, plus appropriate 
certification to practice or licensure, if available.1 
3.1.2.4 A completed Associate degree containing at least 60 units in any 
discipline, plus course work equivalent to a major in the discipline 
of the assignment, plus six (6) years of occupational experience 
related to the discipline of the assignment or six (6) years of full-
time teaching experience in the discipline of the assignment, plus 
appropriate certification to practice or licensure or its equivalent, if 
available.1  
3.1.2.5 Recognized accomplishments which demonstrate expertise and 
skill in the field of study beyond that normally achieved through 
formal education (equivalent to the eminence credential). 
                                                 
1 Teaching and occupational experience may be combined to total the required number of years; all experience must 
have taken place within the ten (10) years preceding the date of application with at least one (1) year of qualified 
experience occurring within the three (3) years immediately preceding the date of application. 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Equivalency to Minimum 
Qualifications 
R-5123 
Recruitment and Appointment 3 of 6 
 
4.0 The Job Description/Announcement 
4.1 The established minimum qualifications for the position will be listed in the job 
description/announcement. The District criteria for equivalency will be available 
at the Human Resources Department. A statement will be included requiring all 
candidates who do not possess the Los Rios minimum qualifications to indicate in 
the application material how they meet the equivalent qualifications for the 
position and to provide supporting documentation. 
5.0 Human Resources—Prescreening 
5.1 Any applicant who fails to provide evidence to support his/her claim of a 
credential, or of minimum qualifications, or of equivalency may be eliminated 
from the applicant pool. 
5.2 District Human Resource staff will verify that applicants claiming an appropriate 
credential do in fact have the appropriate credential, or that applicants claiming 
the required minimum qualifications show the appropriate degrees on their 
transcript. If there is an experience requirement, District Human Resource staff 
will verify that the applicant has the required number years of experience, but will 
make no attempt to judge if the experience is appropriate. 
5.2.1 If the applicant claims to possess the minimum qualifications, but the 
degrees are not exactly those listed in the District minimum qualifications, 
that application shall be considered under the equivalency process even 
though the applicant did not claim equivalency. 
5.2.2 All applications which satisfy the credentials requirement or the District 
minimum qualifications requirement will be forwarded to the college 
screening committee. 
5.3 District Human Resources staff will screen the remaining applications to 
determine whether or not the applicants meet the equivalency criteria contained in 
3.0. Applications that meet these criteria will be forwarded to the college 
screening committee. 
6.0 Equivalency Committees 
6.1 In making equivalency decisions, the committees will rely primarily on the advice 
of the expert faculty from the discipline or closely related disciplines. 
7.0 Faculty—Initial Hiring 
7.1 The screening committee for each vacancy is charged with determining 
equivalency. The committee may decide to have a subset of the committee 
perform this function, but such a subcommittee must consist of at least three 
faculty members and the Area Dean from the discipline.  

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Equivalency to Minimum 
Qualifications 
R-5123 
Recruitment and Appointment 4 of 6 
 
7.2 In cases where there are fewer than three members from the discipline on the 
screening committee, the screening/equivalency committee shall be augmented by 
faculty from the discipline where available, faculty from closely related 
disciplines, or faculty in the discipline from another college. If there are fewer 
than three members of the discipline at the college willing to serve on the 
screening committee, the Academic Senate President shall consult with the 
Department Chair or designee, if one is available, to determine who will augment 
the screening committee. 
8.0 Equivalency Decisions for current District Employees 
 
8.1 The Director of Human Resources will request the formation of a district equivalency 
committee when a current District employee applicant does not possess the District’s 
minimum qualifications and is requesting an equivalency. Applicants must meet at 
least one of the criteria of paragraph 3.0 to be considered.  
 
8.2 The District Academic Senate President, in consultation with the appropriate Area 
Deans from each college and the college academic senate presidents, will form a 
committee consisting of one faculty member from the discipline from each college and 
the Area Deans from each college.  
 
8.3 In cases where a college does not have a faculty in the discipline, the equivalency 
committee shall be augmented by faculty from the discipline where available, faculty 
from closely related disciplines, or faculty in the discipline from another college. The 
District Academic Senate President shall consult with the college academic senate 
presidents and the Area Deans to determine who will serve on the screening 
committee.  
9.0 Other Equivalency Decisions (Administrators’ assignment to 
Faculty, FSA’s for Los Rios Employees, etc.) 
9.1 The Director of Human Resources will request the formation of an equivalency 
committee when the need arises outside the regular hiring process. Applicants 
must meet at least one of the criteria of paragraph 3.0 to be considered. 
9.2 The Academic Senate President and the Area Dean will form a committee 
consisting of at least three faculty members from the discipline and the Area 
Dean. 
9.3 In cases where there are fewer than three members from the discipline on the 
screening committee, the equivalency committee shall be augmented by faculty 
from the discipline where available, faculty from closely related disciplines, or 
faculty in the discipline from another college. The Academic Senate President 
shall consult with the Area Dean to determine who will serve on the screening 
committee. 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Equivalency to Minimum 
Qualifications 
R-5123 
Recruitment and Appointment 5 of 6 
 
10.0 Equivalency Committee Responsibilities 
10.1 The equivalency committee will determine those applicants who meet the 
equivalency based on criteria established in 3.0. An applicant receiving a positive 
equivalency ruling at one college is then considered qualified in that discipline on 
a District-wide basis, subject to verification by the Human Resources Department 
that the recency provision of 3.0 has been satisfied. 
10.2 The equivalency committee will keep records of decisions and the justification for 
each decision. Copies of these records will be sent to the Human Resources 
Department or future reference. Applications for which the equivalency 
committee finds the qualifications to be non-equivalent will also be returned to 
District Human Resources staff with the reasons for rejecting the equivalency. 
10.3 Equivalency committees must take caution to assure that consistency is applied to 
all decisions regarding equivalency. 
10.4 The Area Dean will maintain records of past decisions of the equivalency 
committees and provide copies of those records to new committees as needed. 
10.5 All deliberations of the equivalency committees and all records involved in the 
proceedings shall be confidential. 
11.0 Evidence of Equivalency 
11.1 Conclusive evidence of equivalency shall include: 
11.1.1 A transcript showing that appropriate courses were successfully completed 
at an accredited college or appropriate foreign institution. 
11.1.2 Publications that show a command of the major in question. 
11.1.3 Other work products that show a command of the major or occupation in 
question. 
11.1.4 For fields where practical experience can be considered the equivalent to 
an advanced degree (i.e., the performing arts), evidence of appropriate 
experience. 
(Although the forms of evidence named above are desirable, other 
evidence may be considered.) 
11.2 For the candidate selected to be invited for interview, the District minimum 
qualification equivalency form (P-38) must be completed and signed by the Area 
Dean or management designee and the Department Chair or designee or a faculty 
member chosen by the faculty on the committee.  
11.2.1 No candidate for a full-time position shall be recommended as a finalist to 
the President without meeting the minimum qualifications or having been 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Equivalency to Minimum 
Qualifications 
R-5123 
Recruitment and Appointment 6 of 6 
 
verified as meeting the equivalency by submission of form P-38 with 
appropriate faculty and management signatures. 
11.2.2 No candidate for part-time employment shall be hired without either 
meeting the minimum qualifications or having been verified as meeting 
the equivalency by submission of form P-38 with appropriate faculty and 
management signatures. 
12.0 Application 
12.1 This procedure applies to the hiring of both part-time and full-time faculty. 
Exceptions occur when last-minute hiring decisions about part-time faculty must 
be made when few full-time faculty are available (emergency hire). However, 
when the emergency hire provision is invoked, the candidate must be selected 
through the appropriate interview process before he/she is hired for a subsequent 
academic term. The Academic Senate President shall be informed in writing by 
the college instruction office within ten days of the appointment of each person 
hired under this emergency provision. 
13.0 Review 
13.1 This procedure will be reviewed every three years. If any problem arises, the 
Chancellor or any Faculty Senate may request a review at any time. The District 
Faculty Senate acting jointly with the Chancellor shall be responsible for forming 
the review committee. 
 (Formerly R-5121) 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 7/18/90 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 9/26/16; 3/27/17; 3/25/19 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 3/27/17; 3/25/19 
Board Policy: P-5123