BUDGET PLANNING AND ADMINISTRATION  
 
Instructionally-Related 
Activities 
R-8163 
Instructionally-Related Activities 1 of 3 
 
1.0 Definition of Minimum Program 
1.1 A minimum program of activities that are extensions of the classroom is 
established. This minimum program of activities includes, but is not limited to, 
the following: 
1.1.1 Music – at least two (2) performances per semester in choral or 
instrumental music or both. 
1.1.2 Athletics – the conference schedule offered in each sport in which the 
College has a team. 
1.1.3 Publication – nine (9) issues of a paper of at least four (4) pages. 
1.1.4 Debate – six (6) a semester. 
1.1.5 Plays – one (1) a semester. 
1.1.6 Other activities – according to the curriculum of the College. 
1.2 The minimum program will be reviewed annually and appropriate adjustments 
made. 
2.0 Establishing the Cost of a Minimum Program for Each College 
2.1 The cost for the minimum program is determined by pricing the services to be 
provided in the operation of such programs at each campus as defined in section 
1.0 above. The cost of the minimum program is included in the Budget 
Procedures Manual budget guidelines. 
2.2 The cost of the minimum program is adjusted in each year's budget if new 
approved programs are added and if justification is provided to the Vice 
Chancellor, Finance and Administration indicating that the costs of conducting 
subject activities has increased. Adjustments are presented to the Los Rios 
Community College District Board of Trustees in the budget guidelines for each 
budget year. 
3.0 Financial Support for Instructionally-Related Activities 
3.1 Partial funding for instructionally-related activities is provided from campus-
generated income. 
3.1.1 Local support efforts include the profits from the campus bookstore, 
concessions, and vending machines, as well as gate receipts, including the 
student body card gate fee. 
3.1.2 Campus-generated income is computed annually from information 
provided in year-end financial reports and verified by the annual audit. 

BUDGET PLANNING AND ADMINISTRATION  
 
Instructionally-Related 
Activities 
R-8163 
Instructionally-Related Activities 2 of 3 
 
3.2 Partial funding for the extended classroom activities is provided to each College 
from the operating funds of the Los Rios Community College District. 
3.2.1 The partial funding for each College is equal to the insurance needs of the 
College for athletics and other instructionally-related activities. 
3.3 If the cost of the minimum program of extended classroom activities for a campus 
is greater than the sum of the District partial funding and local effort, the 
remaining funding for the minimum program is provided through equalization 
aid. 
3.3.1 Equalization aid is calculated each year prior to the adoption of the 
District budget for the succeeding fiscal year. 
3.3.2 Equalization aid is adjusted at fiscal year end based upon the actual 
operating results of the instructionally-related program. 
4.0 Maintaining the Level of Campus-Generated Income 
4.1 If a College fails to maintain the level of local effort, the equalization aid will be 
reduced as follows: 
4.1.1 The campus bookstore must maintain a profit margin of 6.75% of gross 
sales. 
4.1.2 The campus must maintain the current levels of campus-generated income 
as specified in section 3.1.1 above. 
4.2 Income generated from sources other than those specified in section 3.1.1 above 
may be utilized to enhance the support of instructionally-related activities. 
5.0 Establishing and Maintaining Instructionally-Related Activities 
Budget 
5.1 The instructionally-related activities budget for each College is established and 
maintained at each College under guidelines developed pursuant to the direction 
of the Chancellor and in accordance with these Administrative Regulations. 
5.2 Instructionally-related activities accounts to record income are established and 
maintained in accordance with provisions of the Education Code and with the 
District Policies and Administrative Regulations. 
5.2.1 All income received from the sources specified in section 3.1.1 above is 
recorded in these accounts and used to reduce the amount of equalization 
aid. 
5.2.2 All other income to be expended for support of instructionally-related 
activities is to be recorded in these accounts. 

BUDGET PLANNING AND ADMINISTRATION  
 
Instructionally-Related 
Activities 
R-8163 
Instructionally-Related Activities 3 of 3 
 
5.3 Instructionally-related activities accounts to record expenditures are established 
and maintained in accordance with the provisions of the Education Code and with 
the District Policies and Administrative Regulations. 
5.3.1 All expenditures for instructionally-related activities are made from these 
accounts as determined by appropriate College personnel. 
5.4 Financial reports relative to operations affecting the instructionally-related 
activities accounts are supplied to the Vice Chancellor, Finance and 
Administration on a monthly basis if a College is receiving equalization aid. 
6.0 College Regulations 
6.1 College personnel are authorized to develop such regulations as may be deemed 
appropriate for the implementation of the instructionally-related activity program 
provided that such regulations are in compliance with District Policies and 
Administrative Regulations provided herein. 
(Formerly R-2313) 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 4/17/74 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 11/19/80; 6/16/82; 1/26/15 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 1/26/15 
Board Policy: P-8163