COMPENSATION AND RELATED BENEFITS 
 
Pay Periods and Procedures R-6326 
Compensation for Services 1 of 4 
 
1.0 Accounting for Time Worked 
1.1 Classified employees paid by the hour will report their time worked on time 
record forms provided by the District. Overtime worked by employees paid by the 
month will be reported on time record forms. 
1.1.1 The administrative officer and the supervisor are responsible for checking 
the accuracy of all time reports, for authorizing any overtime which an 
employee works, and for filing the forms with the District Payroll 
Department. 
1.2 Accounting for Absences 
1.2.1 All classified employees will report absences from work on the absence 
forms provided by the District. Absence reports must be filed by the 
administrative officer or supervisor within the established reporting cycle. 
1.2.2 A part-time, temporary or substitute employee whose workday begins at 
8:00 a.m. or earlier is to inform the supervisor of the operating unit by 
8:00 a.m. if, for any reasons, the individual cannot report for work. 
1.2.3 A part-time, temporary or substitute employee whose workday begins at 
3:00 p.m. or later is to inform the supervisor of the operating unit by 3:00 
p.m. if, for any reason, the individual cannot report for work. 
1.2.4 An employee whose absence for illness or other reasons can be expected 
to last beyond a single day or other specified time must inform the 
supervisor of the operating unit the day before returning to work so that 
the substitute may be notified. An employee who reports back to work 
without having notified the supervisor of the date of return will not be 
allowed to work that day and will receive a loss of pay. The substitute 
already employed for that day will be allowed to complete the day's work. 
2.0 Computing Compensation 
2.1 Salaries are based on a monthly rate; an average of one-hundred seventy-three and 
a third (173.33) hours is used to compute the daily and hourly rate. 
2.1.1 Hourly rate = monthly entitlement / 173.33 hours 
2.1.2 Daily rate = hourly rate x 8 
2.2 Employees will be paid based upon the work assignment and the pay rate filed 
with the District Payroll Department at the time the employee is hired. 
Subsequent salary adjustments (with the exception of overtime and absences) 
must be processed through the Human Resources. 
2.3 Adjustments to pay based on overtime will be made from data reported on the 
time sheets filed with the Payroll Department. 

COMPENSATION AND RELATED BENEFITS 
 
Pay Periods and Procedures R-6326 
Compensation for Services 2 of 4 
 
2.4 Adjustments to pay resulting from absences will be determined from the data 
listed on absence reports filed with the Employee Benefits Department. 
2.5 Correction of Error in Warrant - Errors in salary warrants should be referred to the 
administrative officer in order to process the correction. 
3.0 Payroll Deductions 
3.1 The Payroll Department will make appropriate deductions from regular classified 
employees' monthly pay for approved insurance plans, income taxes, retirement, 
social security, credit union, garnishments, approved charitable organizations, 
association and union dues, tax-sheltered annuities, and deferred compensation. 
(Educ. Code 87040) 
3.2 The Payroll Department shall make deductions from the monthly pay of 
substitutes and short-term employees as follows: Income taxes and retirement 
programs (whenever individuals qualify). 
3.3 The employee must authorize in writing all optional deductions made from the 
individual's salary. 
4.0 Pay Day 
4.1 Employees on the monthly payroll will be paid on the last working day of the 
month for regular time worked from the first through the last day of the month. 
4.1.1 Pay adjustments for loss of pay will be included in the employee's pay the 
month following the month for which the absence is reported. 
4.1.2 Overtime is paid on the tenth of the month for services rendered through 
the 24th day of the preceding month. 
4.2 Employees on the hourly payroll will be paid on the tenth of the month for 
services rendered through the 24th day of the preceding month. 
5.0 Warrant Distribution 
5.1 A regular employee may elect to have his/her warrant sent to: 
5.1.1 The administrative offices at the District location where he/she works. The 
employee may pick up the warrant on the warrant date or on the first 
banking day thereafter. 
5.1.2 The bank via electronic money transfer. After making arrangements with a 
bank for deposit of money to the employee's account, the employee will 
need to send to the District Payroll Department a completed authorization 
form and a voided blank check or a deposit slip. 

COMPENSATION AND RELATED BENEFITS 
 
Pay Periods and Procedures R-6326 
Compensation for Services 3 of 4 
 
5.2 The warrants for all other classified employees are distributed as in 5.1.1 above. 
6.0 Payroll Information 
6.1 The employment and pay records are of vital importance to both the employee 
and the District and must contain information which is accurate. 
6.1.1 Whenever the employee changes name, address, telephone number, 
beneficiary for retirement benefits, marital status or any other item 
affecting employment or pay records, the individual should immediately 
submit these changes in writing to the Human Resources office. 
6.1.2 If a name change is submitted, the appropriate college administrator will 
be so notified. 
6.2 Certain types of information are required as follows: 
6.2.1 At the time of processing for employment with the District, the employee 
must supply information relating to withholding taxes, retirement and 
Social Security. 
6.2.2 The employee must submit to the Employee Benefits Department the 
necessary authorization forms to deduct premiums for various types of 
employee-paid group insurance, as well as a decision regarding which 
District-paid health and accident insurance program will best serve his/her 
needs; 
6.2.3 Information about optional deductions must be submitted by the regular 
employee at least one (1) month prior to the first day of the month for 
which the deduction becomes effective. 
7.0 Adjunct Faculty Assignment 
7.1 Classified employees, monthly or hourly with less than a forty (40) hours per 
week assignment, are eligible to teach on a part-time basis under the following 
conditions: 
7.1.1 Combined classified and instructional assignments exceed neither 1.00 
FTE (based on FTE for each assignment) nor forty (40) hours per week, 
excluding exempt employees. 
7.1.2 The instructional assignment takes place during regularly scheduled 
“leave without pay” periods from the classified assignment. 
7.1.3 The instructional assignment shall be at a different work location and 
outside of regularly assigned classified hours. 
7.1.4 No overtime assignments shall be allowed in the classified position. 
Overtime is defined as any combination of non-exempt classified and 

COMPENSATION AND RELATED BENEFITS 
 
Pay Periods and Procedures R-6326 
Compensation for Services 4 of 4 
 
instructional assignment that total more than forty (40) hours per week or 
eight (8) hours per day. 
7.1.5 The combined classified-instructional assignment described in this 
regulation shall not exceed four (4) consecutive semesters or six (6) 
semesters within any twelve (12) semester period. 
7.1.6 Exempt classified supervisors shall be excluded from the restrictions of 
7.1.5 above.   
7.2 Authority for classified employee teaching is contingent on the recommendation 
of the immediate supervisor and the administrative officer, with the approval of 
the college president (or Associate Vice Chancellor, Human Resources or Vice 
Chancellor, Finance & Administration for District Office employees). 
7.3 Classified employees may not provide instructional services on a voluntary basis. 
7.4 Classified employees may not use a "leave of pay" (i.e. vacation) in meeting the 
guidelines above to provide instructional services. 
7.5 Full-time classified employees may not provide instructional services without 
meeting the guidelines above and should be advised that reductions in workload 
may impact retirement benefits, medical/dental benefits, etc. 
7.6 By accepting instructional assignments classified employees shall not relinquish 
any rights to their classified assignments. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 7/65 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 5/17; 10/29/75; 10/15/80; 10/20/82; 2/26/01; 8/23/04 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed:  
Board Policy: P-6326