INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 
 
International Education R-7151 
International Programs 1 of 17 
 
 
1.0 International Education 
1.1 The Los Rios Community College District shall provide opportunities for 
international education within the community college experience. To this end, 
credit and community service programs shall be the focus of international 
education programs. 
1.2 The District and its colleges may participate with local, state and national 
organizations and agencies to increase awareness of international education.   
1.3 The College may participate in consortia with other community colleges and 
universities to enhance the opportunities for faculty and students to participate in 
international education.   
2.0 Administrative Regulations 
2.1 The Chancellor shall designate a District administrator to provide overall 
responsibility for the administration of the International Education Program. 
2.2 The District International Education Committee shall provide advice to the 
District on matters concerning international education. 
2.3 The Chancellor shall appoint a Coordinator for the District’s Consortium-Based 
Study Abroad to assist the International Education Committee in administrative 
matters relating to the Study Abroad program in accordance with the following.  
2.3.1 Special duties of the Study Abroad Coordinator: 
2.3.1.1 Assist faculty in planning and implementation of consortium-based 
programs. 
2.3.1.2 Work directly with participating consortium members in matters 
relating to bids and other contractual matters. 
2.3.1.3 Review consortium-based program budgets, expenditures reports, 
and make recommendations to the International Education 
Committee.  
3.0 International/Globalization Curriculum Development and 
Enhancement 
3.1 The District curriculum process will be followed in developing courses, 
certificates and programs. 

INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 
 
International Education R-7151 
International Programs 2 of 17 
 
 
4.0 Study-Abroad Programs - Credit Programs: District-Wide 
Consortium-Based Study Abroad 
4.1 Criteria for Credit Course Offerings 
4.1.1 Courses must be approved college courses and comply with local and state 
regulations. 
4.1.2 Courses must be taught by faculty meeting minimum qualifications. 
4.2 Proposals and Procedures for District-wide consortium-based study abroad programs  
4.2.1 Credit programs can be offered by individual colleges or through District-
wide consortium activities.   
4.2.2 A program proposal shall be submitted for all proposed new programs by 
the Study Abroad Coordinator. 
4.2.2.1 College-based programs must be submitted through the appropriate 
dean, vice-president, and Chancellor prior to advertisement and 
recruitment activities are begun. 
4.2.2.2 Consortium-based programs must be submitted to the District-wide 
Study Abroad Coordinator with appropriate campus/District 
approvals and then must be approved by the consortium prior to 
advertisement and recruitment activities are begun. 
4.2.3 The proposal shall be submitted at least six months preceding planned 
implementation in either the fall or spring.  
4.2.3.1 The proposal shall contain: 
1. Name, description, and location of proposed program 
2. Summary of logistical considerations, food, housing, etc. 
3. Estimated cost per student, including air, housing and 
insurance 
4. Narrative of benefits to student and college 
5. Inclusive dates of program 
4.2.3.2 Upon approval of the proposal, a final program agreement will be 
submitted to the appropriate administrator who shall, after review, 
forward on to the District’s Contracts department for review and 
approval of the final agreement. The final proposal shall include: 

INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 
 
International Education R-7151 
International Programs 3 of 17 
 
 
1. Student selection procedures 
2. Program evaluation 
3. Marketing plan 
4. Projected cost of program to students 
5. Preliminary schedule for implementation 
6. Computation of direct/indirect program costs 
7. Insurance information 
8. Waiver and Assumption of Risks information 
9. Details on the mode(s) of travel and travel arrangements (to 
include travel agreements)   
4.3 Faculty Program Leader 
4.3.1 Requirements for the Faculty Program Leader: 
a. For semester length Study Abroad programs, program leaders must 
be full-time tenured faculty.  Programs less than semester length 
are open to full-time probationary and adjunct faculty. 
b. Certification of having met minimum qualifications for courses to 
be taught. 
c. Possession of academic background, teaching experience, 
knowledge of country and ability to function effectively in another 
culture. 
4.3.2 Faculty Program Leaders are to be selected and notified no later than the 
semester preceding the implementation of the program. 
4.3.2.1 Selection of Faculty Program Leaders shall be the responsibility of 
the Study Abroad Coordinator, in consultation with the International 
Education Committee. Once selected, Faculty Program Leaders 
require the final approval of their area dean and College President. 
4.3.3 Faculty Program Leader, in collaboration with the Study Abroad 
Coordinator, will be responsible for the planning and implementation of 
the program, including student recruitment, liaison with contractors both 
in the U.S. and abroad, management of all academic considerations 
abroad, and the health and welfare of students enrolled in the program. 

INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 
 
International Education R-7151 
International Programs 4 of 17 
 
 
4.3.3.1 Instructor loads for semester-length study abroad programs shall 
follow the approximate proportions of: 
Instruction .800 FTE 
Program Coordination  .200 FTE 
4.3.3.2 Instructor loads for less than semester-length programs will be 
based on the regular load calculations for the courses taught.  
4.4 Program Evaluation 
4.4.1 Students shall submit a written evaluation of the program and participate 
in a group evaluation session. 
4.4.2 The Faculty Program Leader shall submit to the Dean, and Study Abroad 
Coordinator, if appropriate, a written evaluation of the program within six 
weeks following the conclusion of the study abroad program. 
4.4.2.1 The report shall include: 
1. Chronology of activities highlighting successes and 
problem areas with comments and recommendations. 
2. Grade sheets for courses completed with grade analysis and 
distribution. 
3. Accomplishments of participating students and faculty. 
4. Assessment of professional growth of the faculty involved. 
5. Overall assessment of program, including 
recommendations for continuation and improvement. 
4.4.2.2 The Study Abroad Coordinator shall review the evaluation and 
report the results to the District International Education Committee 
at a scheduled meeting of the committee.  
4.5 Student Selection 
4.5.1 Students enrolled in District-wide consortium-based Study Abroad 
Programs shall have successfully completed twelve (12) units of college-
level course work prior to the date of departure with a grade point average 
of 2.25 or better, and have completed the appropriate course 
prerequisites.   
4.5.2 Students enrolled in the District-wide consortium-based Study Abroad 
Programs shall be eighteen (18) years of age on or before the date of 
departure.  

INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 
 
International Education R-7151 
International Programs 5 of 17 
 
 
 
4.5.3 Program screening procedures for the selection of students will be 
established. Procedures should include the following as a minimum: 
a. Submittal of a program application, copy of transcript, and 
verification by the Study Abroad Coordinator that the student 
meets (or will meet prior to the trip—with successful completion 
of coursework currently underway) prerequisite, unit, and grade 
point requirements 
4.5.4 Accepted students will be required to sign and return to the District a 
statement acknowledging their understanding of the terms and conditions 
for participation. 
4.5.5 All program participants will be required to sign a District waiver holding 
the District harmless for any and all problems or losses arising from the 
occasion or failure to provide non-instructional services by a travel 
contractor. 
4.5.6 Students may enroll in one or more classes offered by consortium partner 
colleges as part of the study abroad program. Students recruited through 
the District must take at least one class offered by the District as part of 
their program. 
 
4.6 Contractor Selection 
4.6.1 Study abroad program travel contractors will be used to provide non-
instructional services. 
4.6.2 Requests for proposals (RFP) will be developed by the Study Abroad 
Coordinator in coordination with other Consortium members. Prior to 
submitting the bid to the contractor, the RFP shall be reviewed by the 
appropriate District administrator, General Services and Chancellor. 
4.6.3 Initial contracts may require approval of the Chancellor.  Subsequent 
modifications to the contract may also require approval of the Chancellor 
or designee. 
4.6.4  Contractors to whom RFPs are sent must provide: 
a. Evidence of experience in working with educational travel/study 
programs. 
b. References of educational institutions with which the contractor 
has worked. 
c. Evidence of insurance policies which hold harmless and indemnify 
the district, its Board of Trustees, and its officers, employees 

INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 
 
International Education R-7151 
International Programs 6 of 17 
 
 
and/or agents, for any and all problems or losses arising from the 
provision of or failure to provide non-instructional services by the 
contractor. 
d. A statement of the extent to which the contractor relies on the use 
of subcontractors and identification of those subcontractors. 
e. Evidence that the contractor, at its own cost, expense, and risk, will 
defend all legal proceedings that may be brought against the 
district, the Board, its officers and employees or agents on any 
such liability, claim, or demand, and satisfy any resulting judgment 
that may be rendered. 
f. Evidence of ability to secure and maintain, at contractor's expense, 
during the period of the contract, Workers’ Compensation and 
comprehensive liability insurance adequate to protect the 
contractor from claims for personal injury, including death and 
damage to property, which may arise from operations under this 
contract. The policies so secured shall also name the District as 
additionally insured and shall include a combined single limit of 
not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000) for each occurrence. 
g. Evidence that funds to be collected are deposited in a bonded trust 
account. 
4.6.5 Contractors will be notified in writing of the decision made by the District. 
4.6.6 If a travel agency is used, the agency must meet all the requirements of the 
District's Travel Agent Agreement.  NOTE: Only an authorized officer or 
the owner of the travel agency can execute the agreement on behalf of the 
agency.   
4.7 Refund Policies 
4.7.1 The Study Abroad Coordinator, in cooperation with the appropriate 
college administrator and General Services, will establish written 
procedures for refunds consistent with the requirements of each study 
abroad program contract. 
4.8 Financial Procedure 
4.8.1 The Study Abroad Coordinator will comply with the following financial 
procedures: 
a. Budget Development. A program budget proposal will be 
developed and submitted to the appropriate college administrator 
and General Services for approval. 

INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 
 
International Education R-7151 
International Programs 7 of 17 
 
 
b. Collection of Program Fees. Student registration will be paid 
directly to the college at the time of registering for the study 
abroad program. If the student is also taking classes offered by 
another college in the consortium, student registration will be paid 
directly to that college. All other program costs will be paid 
directly to the contractor for the program who will deposit these 
funds in a trust account and disburse the funds in accordance with 
the program contract. 
c. Financial Reporting/Accountability. The Study Abroad 
Coordinator and/or Faculty Program Leader will comply with the 
District financial reporting/accountability policies and procedures. 
5.0 Study-Abroad Programs - Credit Programs: College-Based Study 
Abroad Programs 
5.1 Criteria for Credit Course Offerings 
5.1.1 Courses must be approved college courses and comply with local and state 
regulations. 
5.1.2 Courses must be taught by faculty meeting minimum qualifications. 
5.2 Proposals and Procedures for College-based study abroad programs  
5.2.1 Credit programs can be offered by individual colleges. 
5.2.2 A program outline shall be submitted for all proposed new programs by 
the initiating faculty member. 
5.2.3 College-based programs must be submitted through the appropriate dean, 
vice-president, and college president prior to advertisement and 
recruitment activities are begun. 
5.2.4 The outline for new programs shall be submitted at least eighteen (18) 
months preceding planned implementation. Repeat programs shall be 
submitted at least twelve (12) months prior to planned implementation. 
5.2.4.1 The outline shall contain: 
1. Name, description, and location of proposed 
program 
2. Faculty leader's name, contact information 
and qualifications 
3. Course(s) to be taught 

INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 
 
International Education R-7151 
International Programs 8 of 17 
 
 
4. Summary of logistical considerations, food, housing, etc. 
5. Estimated cost per student, including air, housing 
and insurance 
6. Narrative of benefits to student and college 
7. Inclusive dates of program 
8. Signature of appropriate Dean and Vice-President 
5.2.5 Upon approval of the proposal outline, and at least twelve (12) months 
preceding planned implementation, a final program proposal will be 
submitted through the appropriate dean, vice-president, and college 
president.  
5.2.5.1 The final proposal shall include: 
1. Curriculum description 
2. Course schedule 
3. Student selection procedures 
4. Program evaluation and procedure 
5. Marketing plan 
6. Projected cost of program to students 
7. Preliminary schedule for implementation 
8. Computation of direct/indirect program costs 
9. Insurance information 
10. Details on the mode(s) of travel and travel arrangements 
(to include travel agreements) 
5.2.6 Upon approval of the final program proposal, the Faculty Program Leader 
shall follow the District’s RFP process (see section 5.2.11) in selecting a 
travel contractor for the non-instructional study abroad services. 
5.2.7 After selection of a travel contractor, and at least nine (9) months 
preceding planned implementation, a final budget and contractor 
agreement will be submitted to the appropriate college administrator and  
the District’s contracts department for review and approval.  
5.2.7.1 The Faculty Program Leader is responsible for submitting a final, 

INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 
 
International Education R-7151 
International Programs 9 of 17 
 
 
itemized budget of program costs and costs to participants. 
 
5.2.8 Faculty Program Leader 
5.2.8.1 Requirements for the Faculty Program Leader: 
a. For semester length Study Abroad programs, program leaders 
must be full-time tenured faculty. Programs less than semester 
length are open to full-time, probationary and adjunct faculty. 
b. Certification of having met minimum qualifications for 
courses to be taught. 
c. Possession of academic background, teaching experience, 
knowledge of country and ability to function effectively in 
another culture. 
5.2.8.2 Faculty Program Leader will be responsible for the planning 
and implementation of the program, including student 
recruitment, liaison with contractors both in the U.S. and 
abroad, management of all academic considerations abroad, 
and the health and welfare of students enrolled in the 
program. 
5.2.8.3 Instructor load will be based on the regular load 
calculations for the courses taught. 
5.2.9 Program Evaluation 
5.2.9.1 Students shall submit a written evaluation of the program and 
participate in a group evaluation session. 
5.2.9.2 The Faculty Program Leader shall submit to the Dean a written 
evaluation of the program within six weeks following the 
conclusion of the study abroad program. The report shall 
include: 
1. Chronology of activities highlighting successes 
and problem areas with comments and 
recommendations. 
2. Grade sheets for courses completed with grade analysis 
and distribution. 
3. Accomplishments of participating students and faculty. 
4. Assessment of professional growth of the faculty involved. 
5. Overall assessment of program, including 

INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 
 
International Education R-7151 
International Programs 10 of 17 
 
 
recommendations for continuation and 
improvement. 
5.2.9.3 The Dean shall review the evaluation , and the faculty 
member shall present the results to the District 
International Education Committee at a scheduled 
meeting of the committee. 
5.2.10 Student Selection 
5.2.10.1 Students enrolled in College-based Study Abroad 
Programs shall have completed twelve (12) units of college-
level course work at one or more of the Colleges in the 
District, be in good academic standing, and have completed the 
appropriate course prerequisites. 
5.2.10.2 Students enrolled in the College-based Study Abroad 
Programs shall be eighteen (18) years of age on or before the 
date of departure. 
5.2.10.3 Program screening procedures for the selection of 
students will be established. Procedures should include 
the following as a minimum: 
a. Submittal of a program application, copy of transcript, and 
signed verification by the Faculty Program Leader that the 
student meets (or will meet prior to the trip—with 
successful completion of coursework currently underway) 
the prerequisite, and unit requirements, and is in good 
academic standing. Accepted students will be required to 
sign and return to the District a statement acknowledging 
their understanding of the terms and conditions for 
participation. 
5.2.10.4 All program participants will be required to sign a 
District waiver holding the District harmless for any and all 
problems or losses arising from the occasion or failure to 
provide non-instructional services by a travel contractor. 
5.2.11 Contractor Selection 
5.2.11.1 Study abroad program travel contractors will be 
used to provide non- instructional services. 
5.2.11.2 Requests for proposals (RFP) will be developed by the 
Faculty Program Leader. Prior to submitting the bid to 
contractor, the RFP shall be reviewed by the appropriate 
college administrator, General Services and Chancellor, or 

INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 
 
International Education R-7151 
International Programs 11 of 17 
 
 
designee. 
5.2.11.3 Initial contracts may require approval of the 
Chancellor. Subsequent modifications to the contract may 
also require approval of the Chancellor or designee. 
5.2.11.4 Contractors to whom RFPs are sent must provide: 
a. Evidence of experience in working with educational 
travel/study programs. 
b. References to educational institutions with which the 
contractor has worked. 
c. Evidence of insurance policies which hold harmless and 
indemnify the district, its Board of Trustees, and its officers, 
employees and/or agents, for any and all problems or losses 
arising from the provision of or failure to provide non-
instructional services by the contractor. 
d. A statement of the extent to which the contractor relies on 
the use of subcontractors and identification of those 
subcontractors. 
e. Evidence that the contractor, at its own cost, expense, and 
risk, will defend all legal proceedings that may be brought 
against the district, the Board, its officers and employees or 
agents on any such liability, claim, or demand, and satisfy any 
resulting judgment that may be rendered. 
f. Evidence of ability to secure and maintain, at contractor's 
expense, during the period of the contract, Workers’ 
Compensation and comprehensive liability insurance 
adequate to protect the contractor from claims for personal 
injury, including death and damage to property, which may 
arise from operations under this contract. The policies so 
secured shall also name the District as additionally insured 
and shall include a combined single limit of not less than one 
million dollars ($1,000,000) for each occurrence. 
 g. Evidence that funds to be collected are deposited in a 
bonded trust account. 
5.2.11.5 Contractors will be notified in writing of the decision made 
by the District. 
5.2.11.6 The agency must meet all the requirements of the 
District's Travel Agent Agreement. NOTE: Only an authorized 

INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 
 
International Education R-7151 
International Programs 12 of 17 
 
 
officer or the owner of the travel agency can execute the 
agreement on behalf of the agency. 
5.2.11.7 A list of approved contractors will be kept on file with 
General Services.  
5.2.12 Refund Policies 
5.2.12.1 The Faculty Program Leader, in cooperation with 
the appropriate college administrator and General Services, 
will establish written procedures for refunds consistent with 
the requirements of each study abroad program contract. 
5.2.13 Financial Procedure 
 
5.2.13.1 The Faculty Program Leader or approved contractor 
(where the contract designates contractor responsibility) will 
comply with the following financial procedures: 
a. Budget Development. A program budget proposal 
will be developed and submitted to the 
appropriate college administrator and General 
Services for approval. This budget will be 
accounted for in the contract. 
b. Collection of Program Fees. Student registration will be 
paid directly to the college at the time of registering for 
the study abroad program unless the contract states that 
the contractor shall collect these fees. All other program 
costs will be paid directly to the contractor for the 
program who will deposit these funds in a trust account 
and disburse the funds in accordance with the program 
contract. 
c. Financial Reporting/Accountability. The Faculty Program 
Leader will comply with the district financial 
reporting/accountability policies and procedures. 
d. Financial Report. The Faculty Program Leader will submit 
a financial report and documentation on all account activity 
to the appropriate Dean for review and to General Services 
and the Chancellor for approval. This report will be due no 
later than one month after completion of the program. 
 

INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 
 
International Education R-7151 
International Programs 13 of 17 
 
 
6.0 Offshore Education Programs for Non-U.S. Residents 
6.1 Criteria for Program Development and Implementation 
6.1.1 Courses must be regularly offered college courses and comply with local 
and state regulations. 
6.1.2 Courses must be taught by faculty meeting established minimum 
qualifications. 
6.2 Offshore International Education Programs for Non-Resident International Students 
6.2.1 Where the program involves non-resident international students, a 
program outline shall be submitted to the appropriate Dean for all 
proposed new programs by the initiating faculty member. 
6.2.2 The outline shall be submitted at least two semesters preceding planned 
implementation in either fall or spring: 
6.2.2.1 The outline shall contain: 
1. Name, description, and location of proposed program 
2. Faculty leader's name, contact information and 
qualifications 
3. Staffing 
4. Budget 
5. Narrative of benefits to student and college 
6.2.2.2 Upon approval of the proposal by the Dean, a final program 
proposal will be submitted to the College President for approval. 
The final proposal shall include: 
1. Curriculum 
2. Course schedule 
3. Student selection procedures 
4. Program evaluation and procedure 
5. Marketing plan 
6. Projected cost of program to students 
7. Preliminary schedule for implementation 

INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 
 
International Education R-7151 
International Programs 14 of 17 
 
 
8. Computation of direct/indirect program costs 
9. Insurance 
10. Details on the mode(s) of travel and travel arrangements (to 
include travel agreements). 
6.2.3 Program Evaluation 
6.2.3.1 The Faculty Program Leader shall submit a written evaluation of 
the program within 6 weeks following the conclusion of each 
semester. The report shall include: 
1. Chronology of activities highlighting successes and 
problem areas with comment and recommendation 
2. Grade sheets for courses completed with grade analysis and 
distribution 
3. Accomplishments of participating students and faculty 
4. Assessment of professional growth of the faculty involved 
5. Overall assessment of program including recommendations 
for continuation and improvement 
6.2.3.2 The Dean and/or Study Abroad Coordinator shall review the 
evaluation and report the results to the District International 
Education Committee.  
6.3 Student Selection  
6.3.1 Non-resident International Students 
6.3.1.1 Students will meet all eligibility requirements for admission to the 
Los Rios District colleges, including proficiency in English. 
English proficiency may be established by the following: 
Verification of a score of at least: 
a. 510 on Test of English as a Foreign Language, or 
b. 80 on Michigan Test of English Language Proficiency, or 
c. 21 on English portion of ACT, or 
d. 500 on verbal portion of SAT 

INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 
 
International Education R-7151 
International Programs 15 of 17 
 
 
7.0 Sister College - International Education Programs 
7.1 Students enrolled in semester-length study abroad programs shall have completed 
twelve (12) units of college-level course work with a grade point average of 2.25 or 
better, and eligibility for a college-level introductory writing course. 
7.2 Incoming students from sister institutions must comply with normal application 
admission requirements for international students. 
7.3 The District may pursue negotiations with other institutions of higher learning to 
establish "sister college" relationships for the purpose of facilitating faculty 
exchanges in compliance with the rules and regulations. 
8.0 Faculty and Staff Exchange Programs 
8.1 The District will facilitate instructor exchanges. 
8.2 The District will pursue membership in professional associations which facilitate 
faculty exchanges on local, state, national and international levels. 
8.2.1 Notices of individual and organizational exchange opportunities will be 
disseminated to all full-time district faculty. 
9.0 International Student Programs and Services Offered at Los Rios 
Colleges 
9.1 To maximize program effectiveness, services for international students must meet the 
needs of both the foreign student population and the college. Services must exist 
beyond the level of admission and the assurance of appropriate government 
documents. 
9.2 Staffing 
9.2.1 Each college shall identify staff responsible for coordinating international 
student services. 
9.2.1.1 Duties assigned to coordinating staff may include: 
1. Budget/strategic planning 
2. Social programming 
3. Intra-college coordination 
4. College relations--representing the college at related 
professional meetings 

INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 
 
International Education R-7151 
International Programs 16 of 17 
 
 
5. Community outreach 
6. Personal, social, academic advising assistance 
9.2.1.2 Each college shall coordinate the following activities: 
1. Gather supporting documents 
2. Transcript evaluation 
3. English verification 
4. Statement of financial support 
5. Verification of permanent residence outside of country 
6. College documents 
7. Answer related questions and handle related correspondence 
8. Academic and personal counseling 
9. Orientation (to include safety rules/student expectations) 
10. International Club advisor 
11. Workshops 
12. Gather District Agreement to Participate and 
Waiver/Assumption of Risk Form for each student prior to the 
start   
13. District Travel Agent Agreement(s) and travel arrangement(s) 
9.3 Requirements for Admission 

INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 
 
International Education R-7151 
International Programs 17 of 17 
 
 
9.3.1 The equivalent of a U.S. high school diploma (12 years of education). 
9.3.2 For those colleges which have an intensive English as a Second Language 
Program, Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) with a score 
of  450, or regular English As a Second Language Program, Test of 
English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) with a score of  510, or Michigan 
Test of English Language Proficiency with a score of 80.  
9.3.3 Financial resource certification. 
9.3.4 A tuberculin clearance examination prior to registration. Tuberculosis tests 
will be given at college health centers. 
9.3.5 Health insurance verifications to be completed prior to registration. 
9.4 Requirements for College Transfers (in addition to the above) 
9.4.1 Completion of twelve (12) semester units with a 2.5 grade point average 
or higher. 
9.4.2 The successful completion of at least one course in English equivalent to 
English 1A if no ESL Program exists at the admitting college. 
9.4.3 The high school exchange international student is not admissible except on 
an individual basis to be determined by the college administration.  
10.0 Non-Credit Travel Study Programs - Community Services Travel 
Tours 
10.1Non-credit travel and field study programs shall be offered through the Community 
Education or Community Service programs of the colleges (See P-1511 and R-
1511).   
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 1/26/93 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 4/28/03, 4/24/25 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 4/24/25 
Board Policy: P-7151