HEALTH RELATED ISSUES 
 
Drug and Alcohol Testing R-6822 
Drug and Alcohol-Free Workplace 1 of 6 
 
1.0 Objective 
1.1 To implement Board Policy 6822 and to comply with the Omnibus Transportation 
Employees Testing Act of 1991. 
2.0 Implementation 
2.1 Operation, including but not limited to driving, servicing, repairing, loading or 
unloading, of the following commercial motor vehicles is a safety-sensitive 
function: 
2.1.1 a vehicle with a gross combination weight of at least 26,001 pounds 
inclusive of a towed unit with a gross vehicle weight rating of more than 
10,000 pounds; 
2.1.2 a vehicle with a gross vehicle weight of at least 26,001 pounds; 
2.1.3 a vehicle designed to transport 16 or more passengers, including the 
driver; or 
2.1.4 a vehicle used to transport those hazardous materials found in the 
Hazardous Materials Transportation Act. 
2.2 The following conduct by a covered employee is prohibited and may result in 
discipline, up to and including termination: 
2.2.1 reporting for duty or remaining on duty requiring the performance of 
safety-sensitive functions while having an alcohol concentration level of 
0.04 or greater; 
2.2.2 performing a safety-sensitive function within four (4) hours of using 
alcohol; 
2.2.3 being on duty or operating a vehicle described above, while possessing 
alcohol; 
2.2.4 using alcohol while performing a safety-sensitive function; 
2.2.5 reporting for duty or remaining on duty requiring the performance of 
safety-sensitive functions when the employee used any controlled 
substances, except if the use is pursuant to the instructions of a physician 
who has advised the employee that the substance does not adversely affect 
the employee's ability to safely operate a vehicle; 
2.2.6 reporting for duty or remaining on duty requiring the performance of 
safety-sensitive functions if the employee tests positive for controlled 
substances; 
2.2.7 refusing to submit to any alcohol or controlled substances test required by 
this policy. (A covered employee who refuses to submit to a required 
drug/alcohol test will be treated in the same manner as an employee who 

HEALTH RELATED ISSUES 
 
Drug and Alcohol Testing R-6822 
Drug and Alcohol-Free Workplace 2 of 6 
 
tested 0.04 or greater on an alcohol test or tested positively on a controlled 
substances test.) 
2.3 A refusal to submit to an alcohol or controlled substances test required by this 
policy includes, but is not limited to: 
2.3.1 a refusal to provide a urine sample for a drug test or saliva or breath for an 
alcohol test; 
2.3.2 an inability to provide an adequate urine sample or saliva or breath sample 
without a valid medical explanation; 
2.3.3 a refusal to attempt to provide  a new urine specimen after an insufficient 
specimen has been provided (if an employee is unable to provide a 
sufficient amount of urine, he or she will be given the opportunity to drink 
up to 40 ounces of fluid over a period of up to three (3) hours and will be 
monitored during that time. An employee's decision not to drink fluids is 
not considered a refusal to test.); 
2.3.4 a refusal to attempt to provide a sufficient amount of breath after an 
insufficient amount has been provided (if an employee is unable to 
provide a sufficient amount of breath, he or she will be given an 
opportunity to make a second attempt to provide a sufficient amount and 
will be instructed on how to do so.); 
2.3.5 a refusal to complete and sign the breath alcohol testing form, or otherwise 
to cooperate with the testing process in a way that prevents the completion 
of the text;  
2.3.6 an inability to provide breath or to provide an adequate amount of breath 
without a valid medical explanation 
2.3.7 tampering with or attempting to adulterate the urine specimen or collection 
procedure; 
2.3.8 not reporting to the collection site in the time allotted by the supervisor or 
manager who directed the employee to be tested; 
2.3.9 leaving the scene of an accident without a valid excuse or permission from 
a supervisor authorized to decide whether to send the employee for a post-
accident drug and/or alcohol test. 
3.0 Tests Required: 
3.1 Pre-employment Testing: All applicants for positions as covered employees 
("Applicants") as well as employees who transfer into positions in which they will 
perform safety-sensitive functions ("Transfers") will be required to submit to pre-
employment/pre-duty drug testing. All offers are contingent on the Applicant or 
Transfer passing this test, and no Applicant or Transfer will be allowed to perform 
safety-sensitive functions until they have satisfactorily passed the test. 

HEALTH RELATED ISSUES 
 
Drug and Alcohol Testing R-6822 
Drug and Alcohol-Free Workplace 3 of 6 
 
3.1.1 All Applicants and Transfers must sign a written consent form, which will 
be provided by the District, allowing the District to obtain the following 
information from any Department of Transportation (DOT)-regulated 
employers that have employed the Applicant or Transfer for any period 
during the two years before the date of the application or transfer: alcohol 
tests with a result of 0.04 or higher alcohol concentration; verified positive 
drug tests; refusals to be tested (including verified adulterated or 
substituted drug test results); other violations of DOT agency drug and 
alcohol testing regulations; and with respect to any employee who violated 
a DOT drug and alcohol regulation documentation of the employee's 
successful completion of DOT return-to-duty requirements (including 
follow-up tests). This information includes any drug or alcohol test 
information obtained from previous employers under any DOT agency 
regulation. Refusal by an Applicant or Transfer to provide written consent 
or submit to the required testing will result in immediate termination from 
employment consideration.  
3.1.2 The District will send an inquiry to all previous DOT-regulated employers 
for whom the employee worked in the previous two (2) years. The District 
will also inquire directly of the Applicant or Transfer whether he or she 
has tested positive or refused to test for any employer who did not hire the 
Applicant or Transfer during the previous two (2) years.  
3.1.3 An Applicant or Transfer determined to have had a verified positive drug 
or alcohol test, refusal to test, or other violation of DOT agency drug and 
alcohol testing regulation as a result of such inquiries must provide 
documentation of successful completion of the SAP evaluation, referral, 
and education/treatment process set forth in the applicable DOT agency 
regulations and have a negative drug and alcohol test result before being 
hired by the District.  
3.1.4 The District will maintain a written, confidential record of the information 
obtained and the efforts to obtain such information under this section for 
three (3) years from the date of the Applicant or Transfer's first 
performance of safety-sensitive functions for the District.  
3.1.5 The District is required to respond to similar inquiries from other 
prospective employers if a District covered employee or a former District 
covered employee applies for work with another employer. The District 
will maintain a written confidential record of the information released, 
including the date, the party to whom it was released, and a summary of 
the information provided. 
3.2 Post-Accident Testing: Post-accident drug and alcohol testing will be conducted 
on covered employees following an accident. Post-accident alcohol tests shall be 
administered within two (2) hours following an accident and no test may be 
administered after eight (8) hours. A post-accident drug test shall be conducted 
within thirty-two (32) hours following the accident. 

HEALTH RELATED ISSUES 
 
Drug and Alcohol Testing R-6822 
Drug and Alcohol-Free Workplace 4 of 6 
 
An accident occurs when, as a result of an occurrence involving the vehicle, an 
individual dies or when a State or local law enforcement authority issues a 
citation to the covered employee driver for a moving violation arising from the 
accident. The employee must notify the District supervisor within two (2) hours 
of receiving the citation. 
3.3 Random Testing: Covered employees will be subject to random alcohol and drug 
testing as follows: 
3.3.1 A random alcohol test will be administered just prior to the covered 
employee performing a safety-sensitive function (e.g., driving) while the 
covered employee is performing a safety-sensitive function, or just after 
the covered employee has stopped performing a safety-sensitive function. 
The District will subject at least twenty-five percent (25%) of covered 
employees to random alcohol testing per year. 
3.3.2 A random drug test will be administered to at least fifty percent (50%) of 
the total number of covered employees per year. Some employees may be 
tested more than once in a year, while others are not tested at all 
depending on the random selection. 
3.3.3 The covered employee will receive a written notice at the beginning of the 
work shift indicating the time scheduled to report to the lab for testing. 
The employee's supervisor will ensure that the employee's job duties are 
covered during the period of time designated for testing. 
3.4 Reasonable Suspicion Testing: Covered employees are also required to submit to 
an alcohol or drug test when a trained supervisor has reasonable suspicion to 
believe the covered employee is under the influence of alcohol or controlled 
substances. The observation must be based on short-term indicators, such as 
blurry eyes, slurring, or alcohol on the breath. The supervisor may not rely on 
long-term signs, such as absenteeism or tardiness, to support the need for a 
reasonable suspicion test. 
The reasonable suspicion alcohol test will be administered within two (2) hours of 
the observation. If not, the employer must provide written documentation as to 
why the test was not promptly conducted. No test may be administered after eight 
(8) hours following the observation. 
To ensure that supervisors are trained to make reasonable suspicion 
determinations, supervisors vested with the authority to demand a reasonable 
suspicion drug and alcohol test will attend at least one (1) hour of training on 
alcohol misuse and at least one (1) hour of training on controlled substances use. 
The training will cover the physical, behavioral, speech, and performance 
indicators of probable alcohol misuse and use of controlled substances. 
3.5 Return to Duty/Follow-Up Testing: A covered employee who has violated any of 
the prohibitions of this policy must submit to a return to duty test before the 
covered employee may return to the safety-sensitive position. The test result must 
indicate an alcohol concentration of less than 0.02 or a verified negative result on 

HEALTH RELATED ISSUES 
 
Drug and Alcohol Testing R-6822 
Drug and Alcohol-Free Workplace 5 of 6 
 
a controlled substances test. In addition, because studies have shown that the 
relapse rate is highest during the first year of recovery, the employee will be 
subject to follow-up testing which is separate from the random testing obligation. 
The employee will be subject to at least six (6) unannounced drug/alcohol tests 
during the first year back to the safety-sensitive position following the violation. 
4.0 Procedures to be Used for Detection of Drugs and Alcohol 
4.1 Alcohol Testing: Alcohol testing will be conducted by technicians qualified as 
required under the applicable DOT regulations at a facility meeting the 
requirements of the applicable DOT regulations. Testing will be conducted by 
using an evidential breath testing device (EBT) approved by the National 
Highway Traffic Safety Administration. Non-EBT devices may be used for initial 
screening tests. 
4.2 A screening test will be conducted first. If the result is an alcohol concentration 
level of less than 0.02, the test is considered a negative test. If the alcohol 
concentration level is 0.02 or more, a second confirmation test will be conducted. 
4.3 Drug Testing: Drug testing will be conducted in accordance with all applicable 
DOT regulations. 
a) The urine specimen will be taken by a collector qualified as required under the 
applicable DOT regulations and at a facility meeting the requirements of the 
applicable DOT regulations. The urine specimen will be split into two (2) 
bottles labeled as "primary" and "split" specimen. Both bottles will be sent to 
the lab. 
b) If the urinalysis of the primary specimen results in a verified positive drug test 
or refusal to test because of adulteration or substitution, the employee has 
seventy-two (72) hours from notification to request either verbally or in 
writing, that the split specimen be analyzed by a different certified lab 
selected by the District. If a request is not made within 72 hours, the employee 
may present to the Medical Review Officer (MRO) documentation of 
circumstances that unavoidably prevented him/her from making a timely 
request. If the MRO concludes that there was a legitimate reason for the 
failure to make a timely request, the request will be treated as timely. Upon 
request, the employee must reimburse the District for the cost of the split 
specimen testing.  
c) The urine sample will be tested for the following: marijuana, cocaine, opiates, 
amphetamines, and phencyclidine. 
d) If the test is positive for one or more of the drugs, a confirmation test will be 
performed using gas chromatography/mass spectrometry analysis. 
e) All drug test results will be verified by a Medical Review Officer (MRO), a 
licensed physician responsible for receiving and reviewing laboratory results 
and evaluating medical explanations for certain drug test results. Such 
verification will take place before the drug test results are reported to the 

HEALTH RELATED ISSUES 
 
Drug and Alcohol Testing R-6822 
Drug and Alcohol-Free Workplace 6 of 6 
 
employee and then to the District and no action will be taken by the District 
prior to verification.  
f) With all positive drug tests and all refusals to test because of adulteration or 
substitution, the MRO will first personally conduct a verification interview 
with the employee to determine if there is an alternative medical explanation 
for the positive test result. If documentation is provided and the MRO 
determines that there was a legitimate medical use for the prohibited drug, the 
test result may be reported to the District as "negative." 
5.0 Consequences of Failing an Alcohol and/or Drug Test 
5.1 A positive result from a drug or alcohol test may result in disciplinary action, up 
to and including termination.  
5.2 If a covered employee is not terminated, the employee: 
5.2.1 must be removed from performing any safety-sensitive function; 
5.2.2 must submit to an examination by a substance abuse professional (Upon a 
determination by the substance abuse professional, the employee may be 
required to undergo treatment for alcohol or drug abuse. The District is not 
required to pay for this treatment.); 
5.2.3 may not be returned to the covered employee's position until the employee 
submits to a return-to-duty test which indicates an alcohol concentration 
level of less than 0.02 or a negative result on a controlled substance test; 
5.2.4 will be required to submit to unannounced follow-up testing after 
returning to the covered safety-sensitive position. 
6.0 Consequences for Employees Found to have Alcohol Concentration 
Levels of 0.02 or Greater but Less Than 0.04 
6.1 An employee whose alcohol test indicates an alcohol concentration level between 
0.02 and 0.04 will be removed from a safety-sensitive position for twenty-four 
(24) hours.  
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 1/10/96 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 6/19/96; 3/28/05 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed:  
Board Policy: P-6822