COMPENSATION AND SCHEDULE Catastrophic Leave Program R-9239 
Leaves and Absences 1 of 4 
 
1.0 Catastrophic Illness or Injury Leave Program 
The Catastrophic Illness or Injury Leave Program shall operate on a cycle of three years.  
The first cycle of the program shall commence on July 1, 2008 and end on June 30, 2011. 
Unless otherwise agreed, the Catastrophic Illness or Injury Leave Program sha ll 
automatically renew for an additional three year cycle upon the conclusion of a cycle. 
1.1 Definitions 
For purposes of this section, the following terms are defined as follows: 
1.1.1 Catastrophic Illness or Injury 
Catastrophic illness or injury means an illness o r injury that is expected to 
incapacitate an employee from work for an extended period of time, or that 
incapacitates a member of the employee’s immediate family which 
incapacity requires the employee to take time off from work for an extended 
period of time to care for that family member, and taking extended time off 
work creates a financial hardship for the employee because he or she has 
exhausted all of his or her eligible sick leave, vacation, and other paid time 
off and is in less than full pay status. 
1.1.2 Eligible Employee 
An eligible employee is a permanent employee of the District who is not 
receiving benefits under the District’s Industrial Accident and Illness 
program and who is not eligible for or receiving benefits from the District’s 
Disability Inco me Protection program.  To receive benefits from the 
Catastrophic Illness or Injury Leave Program, an eligible employee must be 
vested in the Catastrophic Illness or Injury Leave Program, pursuant to 
Section 1.4.1, and not be in probationary status.  An el igible employee is 
further defined as an employee who due to catastrophic illness or injury is 
in less than full pay status. 
1.1.3 Immediate Family 
The immediate family of an employee for the purposes of the Catastrophic 
Illness or Injury Leave Program is defined as: mother, father, son, daughter, 
step-son, step-daughter, grandparent or grandchild of the employee; spouse 
or domestic partner of the employee; son or daughter of the domestic partner 
of the employee; brother or sister of the employee; or legal dependent of the 
employee. 
1.1.4 Eligible Leave Credits 
Eligible leave credits are accrued, unused vacation hours vested to a 
permanent employee or a probationary employee who has completed six (6) 
months or more of service. 
1.2 Catastrophic Illness or Injury Leave Bank 
A Catastrophic Illness or Injury Leave Bank shall be maintained by the District as 

COMPENSATION AND SCHEDULE Catastrophic Leave Program R-9239 
Leaves and Absences 2 of 4 
 
follows: 
1.2.1 Donations  
A management or confidential employee who has completed six (6) months 
or more of service may donate accrued, unused vacation leave to the 
Catastrophic Il lness or Injury Leave Bank.  Donations must be in a 
minimum block of three (3) hours but not more than forty (40) hours per 
solicitation.  A donation once made shall be irrevocable. Donations may 
only be made upon an official solicitation by the District. 
1.2.1.1 One year service Requirement 
A management or confidential employee who has completed six 
(6) or more months of service may donate to the Catastrophic 
Illness or Injury Leave Bank but is not vested in the Catastrophic 
Illness or Injury Leave Program until h e or she satisfactorily 
completes his or her first year of service period.  In the event the 
employee does not complete the first year of service, his or her 
vacation donation will be restored to the employee. 
1.2.2 Solicitation of Donations 
Annually, the District shall solicit donations to the Catastrophic Illness or 
Injury Leave Bank.  The annual solicitation shall occur in April. More 
frequent solicitations by the District may be made if the Catastrophic Illness 
or Injury Committee deems it appropriate. 
1.2.3 Accounting for Donations 
Donations shall be converted to a dollar amount based upon the donating 
employee’s current rate of pay.  The District shall maintain a separate 
accounting of the Catastrophic Illness or Injury Leave Bank. 
1.3 Catastrophic Illness or Injury Committee 
A Catastrophic Illness or Injury Committee shall be established to oversee the 
Catastrophic Illness or Injury Leave Program. 
1.3.1 Committee Composition 
The Committee shall be composed of five (5) voting members with one 
member each appointed by the LRCEA, SEIU, LRSA, Management and 
Confidential units.  The Director of Human Resources or designee shall 
serve as the non-voting chair of the Committee.  The Committee shall have 
access to resource staff as deemed appropriate by the Committee in 
discharging their responsibility. 
1.3.2 Release Time 
Committee members will be provided release time without loss of 
compensation and benefits, including a reasonable amount of travel time to 
and from the member’s work location, to attend offi cial meetings of the 
Committee. 

COMPENSATION AND SCHEDULE Catastrophic Leave Program R-9239 
Leaves and Absences 3 of 4 
 
1.3.3 Committee Charge 
The Committee will be charged with oversight of the Catastrophic Illness 
or Injury Leave Program, including approval or disapproval of applications 
for Catastrophic Illness or Injury Leave. The decisions of the Committee 
shall be final.  Committee deliberations are confidential and decisions on 
approving or disapproving a requested leave shall be made by majority, 
secret vote of members present.  In order to approve or disapprove a 
requested leave a quorum of the Committee, defined as thr ee (3) or more 
voting members, must be present to vote.  The Committee shall also be 
responsible for determining if additional solicitations other than the annual 
solicitation in April are needed. 
1.3.4 Committee Limitation 
The Committee may not approve a Catastrophic Illness or Injury Leave that 
exceeds the available funding in the Catastrophic Il lness or Injury Leave 
Bank. 
1.4 Application for Catastrophic Illness or Injury Leave 
An eligible employee who is vested in the Catastrophic Illness or Injury Leave 
Program and who has satisfactorily completed his or her probationary period may 
apply for Catastrophic Illness or Injury Leave by submitting an application for such 
leave to the Director of Human Resources.  Applications for Catastrophic Illness or 
Injury Leave will be reviewed and acted upon by the Catastrophic Illness and Injury 
Committee.  In order for an application to be acted upon, a Release of Medical 
Information form must accompany the application. 
1.4.1 Eligible Employee Vesting 
An eligible employee must be vested in the Catastrophic Illness or Injury 
Leave Program prior to receiving a Catastrophic Illness or Injury Leave.  To 
be vested, an eligible employee must have donated a minimum of three (3) 
accrued, unused vacation hours within each cycle, as defined in Section 1.0, 
of the Catastrophic Illness or Injury Leave Program.  The employee must 
be vested in the cycle of the Catastrophic Illness or Leave Program in which 
they apply for a Catastrophic Illness or Injury Leave. 
1.4.2 Physician Statement Required 
A physician ’s statement verifying the employee’s incapacitation or the 
incapacitation of a member of the employee’s immediate family which 
incapacity requires the employee to take time off from work to care for that 
family member must accompany the application for Catastrophic Illness or 
Injury Leave. 
1.4.3 Length of Leave 
The length of a Catastrophic Illness or Injury Leave shall not exceed ninety 
(90) calendar days commencing from the first day that the employee i s in 
less than full pay status. 

COMPENSATION AND SCHEDULE Catastrophic Leave Program R-9239 
Leaves and Absences 4 of 4 
 
1.4.4 Requirement to Exhaust All Eligible Paid Leaves 
An eligible employee must have exhausted all eligible paid leaves, 
including accrued vacation and sick leave, and be in less than full pay status 
to qualify for a Catastrophic Illness or Injury Leave.  Other Sick Leave (Five 
Month Law) and Catastrophic Illness or Injury Leave may be coordinated. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 2/21/78 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 2/18/81; 6/16/82; 10/23/90; 10/26/98; 11/28/05  
Adm. Regulation Reviewed:  
Board Policy: P-9238