STUDENT DEVELOPMENT 
 
Academic Advising 
Program   
R-2332 
Intercollegiate Athletics 1 of 2 
 
1.0 Academic Advising Program 
1.1 A strong and clear statement of support by the College President should be 
communicated to their institution regarding the implementation of academic 
advising services for student athletes. 
1.2 Athletic Counselor 
1.2.1 Each College of the Los Rios Community College District shall identify 
and assign the equivalent of 1.0 FTE counselor within the authorized 
counseling FTE of the Colleges to function as the Athletic Counselor(s). 
1.2.1.1 Each Athletic Counselor should actively participate in the 
California Community College Association of Academic Advisors 
for Athletes (3C4A). 
2.0 Program Components 
2.1 The Application Process 
2.1.1 The application process commences with the initial contact with the 
student athlete and may include appropriate assistance in completion of all 
pertinent documents, communication with the student’s parents, pre-
registration information sessions in late spring to access the College 
summer session if appropriate, and to apply for financial aid in a timely 
manner if necessary. 
2.2 The Orientation Program 
2.2.1 Orientation sessions will be scheduled for small groups or individual 
student athletes. The sessions will be conducted by appropriate staff 
including the Athletic Counselor and the coach(es) of the particular sport. 
2.3 The Academic Advising Process 
2.3.1 The Athletic Counselor is assigned to ensure that each student athlete 
completes the matriculation process. The Athletic Counselor works with 
the student athlete from first contact to establish the academic relationship 
and after a comprehensive review of all academic background data, 
advises the student of all available options. 
2.4 The Follow-Up Process 
2.4.1 Each College will implement a system for monitoring the continuous 
enrollment, unit load, attendance and performance in all classes for each 
student athlete. 
2.4.1.1 Performance (grade) checks will be conducted one (1) time per 
semester at a minimum. 

STUDENT DEVELOPMENT 
 
Academic Advising 
Program   
R-2332 
Intercollegiate Athletics 2 of 2 
 
2.4.1.2 Unit load checks will occur at regular intervals, pursuant to the 
California Community College Athletic Association regulations. 
2.4.2 Coaches, Athletic Directors, and student athletes will be notified of the 
data collected. Student athletes dropping below twelve (12) units and/or 
nine (9) units of general education or degree/certificate specific shall not 
be allowed to participate in intercollegiate athletics until the deficient 
condition is resolved. 
2.5 Coordination and Training 
2.5.1 In-service training shall be provided for coaches, counselors and other 
appropriate staff on athletic advising, eligibility standards, transfer, 
California Community College Athletic Association rules, and code 
requirements. 
2.6 Research and Evaluation 
2.6.1 At the conclusion of each academic year, a report on the academic 
progress of the District’s student athletes will be produced by the Colleges 
and coordinated by the District Research and Planning Office. The report 
will include a statistical analysis of units attempted, units completed, and 
GPA by sport, and other relevant data necessary to evaluate program 
effectiveness prepared by the District Office of Research and Planning and 
a status report prepared by the Colleges. 
2.6.2 Appropriate clerical resources will be assigned to collect, analyze and 
distribute pertinent data to evaluate student athletes’ progress and program 
success. 
2.7 Policy Manual 
2.7.1 The Colleges will develop and maintain a policy manual handbook for 
student athletes to inform them on policies and procedures required of 
students who participate in intercollegiate athletics. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 6/15/94 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 7/17/96; 10/17/16 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 10/17/16 
Board Policy: P-2332