COMMUNICATIONS WITH THE PUBLIC 
 
News Media Communication   R-1111 
Public Information 1 of 1 
 
1.0 Individual College Responsibility 
1.1 The individual Colleges of the Los Rios Community College District will release 
news of events, coming events, accomplishments of students and staff and other 
matters of interest on their respective campuses, sending copies of all releases to the 
Associate Vice Chancellor, Communications and Media Relations. 
2.0 District Responsibility 
2.1 The District Office will release information on District Policies, Board actions and 
other matters involving the District as a whole, sending copies of all releases to 
Communications and Public Information Officers on the individual campuses for 
their information. 
3.0 District Procedures 
3.1 Every effort shall be made to inform the news media of coming Board meetings and 
other District-wide events in advance. Such background information as may be 
available before the meeting shall be sent to news media requesting it, as soon as it 
becomes available. 
3.2 Where mass media seek information relating to the position of the District on a given 
matter, such inquiries shall be referred to the Chancellor or to the Associate Vice 
Chancellor, Communications and Media Relations. This in no way curtails the right 
of District employees to speak as individuals on any matter. 
3.3 The administration will cooperate with all media in the development and 
dissemination of factual information on the District and its Colleges. 
3.4 Periodically, the District and its Colleges will issue general publications about the 
District and its Colleges for distribution to the news media and to the general public. 
3.5 The District will encourage access to public information on all its activities. 
Specifically, District employees shall answer questions from the public concerning 
their areas knowledge and responsibility. Questions from the media shall be directed 
to the Associate Vice Chancellor, Communications and Media Relations or to the 
appropriate College Communications and Public Information Officer. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 6/2/65 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 11/5/80; 5/20/81; 1/16/90; 12/6/95; 4/13/16 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 4/13/16 
Board Policy: P-1111