EXPENDITURES 
  
Development and Copyright of 
Materials 
R-8333 
Business Services 1 of 8 
 
1.0 Purpose 
These regulations establish procedures for implementing District policy concerning the 
copyrighting, publishing, and ownership of materials developed by District employees or 
the District itself and provide guidelines for the use of copyrighted materials in 
compliance with Federal law. 
2.0 Definitions 
2.1 Fair use is defined as the use of copyrighted materials for purposes of criticism, 
comment, news reporting, teaching, scholarship or research. This is not an 
infringement of copyright. The existence of such purpose is not, by itself, 
sufficient to sustain a claim that the use is fair. Specific facts to be considered are 
as follows: (17 USC, Section 107) 
2.1.1 The purpose and character of the use, including whether it is of a 
commercial character or is for non-profit educational purposes; 
2.1.2 the nature of the copyrighted work; 
2.1.3 the amount and substantiality of the portion used in relation to the work as 
a whole; 
2.1.4 the effect of the use upon the potential market for, or value of, the 
copyrighted work. 
2.2 Copyright notice consists of the following: 
2.2.1 The word "copyright", the abbreviation "copr.", or the symbol "©"; 
2.2.2 the name of the copyright owner; 
2.2.3 the year of publication. 
2.3 Computer programs are classified as "literary works." As such, they are covered 
under copyright protection (17 USC, section 101). Copyright extends to computer 
programs in source code as well as object code. Even though the copyright notice 
is not displayed, a computer program may still be under copyright protection.  
3.0 Collection and Use of Fees 
3.1 The Administrative Services Office will collect all fees related to the 
dissemination of copyrighted and non-copyrighted materials, including cost-
covering charges for materials in the public domain, costs affixed to District 
copyrighted materials, and royalties. 

EXPENDITURES 
  
Development and Copyright of 
Materials 
R-8333 
Business Services 2 of 8 
 
4.0 Publication and Copyright of Independently Developed Material 
4.1 Employees using District resources to develop independently materials subject to 
copyright are responsible for notifying the Administrative Services Office during 
the initial development phase. Written agreements between the employee and the 
District, defining whether or not the District will be affiliated with the project, the 
use of District staff and resources, ownership rights, and financial arrangements, 
including royalties, will be negotiated on an individual basis. 
4.2 For works copyrighted in their own names, District faculty and staff are 
personally responsible for overseeing publication, preparing the necessary forms, 
paying filing fees, and submitting registration applications except as otherwise 
provided in written agreements developed in accordance with 4.1 above. 
5.0 Publication and Copyright of District-Developed Materials 
5.1 The Administrative Services Office is the District Office of record for copyright 
registration forms and related records. Requests for the use of District copyrighted 
materials outside of the District shall be processed by the Administrative Services 
Office, including the collection of fees as described in 3.0 above. 
5.2 When a work is copyrighted in the District's name, the following provisions 
apply: 
5.2.1 The copyright notice should include both the word "copyright" and the 
symbol "©;" the legal corporate name of the District; and the date 
copyrighted: "Copyright © Los Rios Community College District 1992". 
5.2.2 The person in charge of producing the copyrightable work should obtain 
the appropriate application form from the Administrative Services Office 
and return the completed form for signature along with two copies of the 
material. Final processing and submittal will be handled by the 
Administrative Services Office. 
6.0 Guidelines for Observing Copyright Protections 
6.1 Single copies 
6.1.1 Single copies may be made of printed materials for purposes of criticism, 
comment, teaching, scholarship, or research as follows: (17 USC, Section 
107) 
6.1.1.1 A chapter of a book; 
6.1.1.2 an article from a periodical or a newspaper; 
6.1.1.3 a short story, a short essay, or a short poem; 

EXPENDITURES 
  
Development and Copyright of 
Materials 
R-8333 
Business Services 3 of 8 
 
6.1.1.4 a chart, a graph, a diagram, a drawing, a cartoon or a picture from a 
book, a periodical, or a newspaper; 
6.1.1.5 a single copy of an entire performable unit of music that is 
confirmed by the copyright owner to be out of print or that is 
unavailable except in a larger work, when made for academic 
purpose other than performance and solely for the teacher's 
research or class preparation. 
6.2 Multiple copies 
6.2.1 Multiple copies, not to exceed one (1) copy per student, may be made for 
or by an instructor for classroom use, provided that: 
6.2.1.1 Each copy carries the copyright notice; 
6.2.1.2 the copying is not used to substitute for the purchase of printed 
materials; 
6.2.1.3 the copying is not used to create or substitute for anthologies or 
other collective works; 
6.2.1.4 the copying is not from works described as "consumable" such as 
workbooks, standardized tests, test booklets, answer sheets, etc.; 
and 
6.2.1.5 the copying meets the tests for brevity, spontaneity, and 
cumulative effect. 
6.2.1.5.1 Brevity: 
a) Poetry - A complete poem if less than 250 words or an 
excerpt of not more than 250 words. 
b) Prose - A complete article, story, or essay if less than 2,500 
words or an excerpt from a longer work if not more than 
1,000 words or 10 percent (10%) of the work. 
c) Illustration - One (1) chart, graph, diagram, drawing, or 
picture per book or periodical issue. 
d) Printed music - Excerpts of works for academic purposes 
other than performance, provided they do not compromise 
a performable unit such as selection, movement, or aria or 
exceed 10 percent (10%) of the total work. 
6.2.1.5.2 Spontaneity: 

EXPENDITURES 
  
Development and Copyright of 
Materials 
R-8333 
Business Services 4 of 8 
 
a) The copying is at the inspiration of an individual instructor 
and not directed by a higher authority. 
b) The decision to use to work and the moment of maximum 
effectiveness are so close in time as to make it 
unreasonable to request permission for use. 
6.2.1.5.3 Cumulative Effect: 
a) The copying is for only one (1) course and is not repeated 
by the same instructor from term to term. 
b) The copying does not exceed one (1) short poem, article, 
essay; two (2) excerpts from the same author; no more than 
three (3) excerpts from the same collective work during one 
(1) class term. 
c) Such multiple copying does not exceed nine (9) instances 
in one (1) class term. 
6.2.1.6 The copying of printed music for purposes of performance is not 
allowed except that emergency copying may be done to replace 
purchased copies which are not available for an imminent 
performance, provided replacement copies are ordered promptly. 
6.3 Reproductions by Libraries and Archives (17 USC, Section 108) 
6.3.1 A library or its employees may reproduce not more than one (1) copy of a 
work or phonorecord, provided: 
6.3.1.1 The copy is made without any purpose of direct or indirect 
commercial advantage; 
6.3.1.2 the library is open to the public; 
6.3.1.3 the copy carries a notice of copyright; 
6.3.1.4 the copy carries the following warning: "This material may be 
protected by copyright laws (Title 17/US Codes)". 
6.3.2 Archival reproduction permits a facsimile copy, solely for the purpose of 
preservation and security. This right extends to photographs, 
phonorecords, and motion pictures. 
6.3.3 Replacement of damaged copy authorizes a facsimile copy of a published 
work solely for the purpose or replacement of a damaged, deteriorating, 
lost, or stolen copy if after a reasonable effort the library determines a 
replacement cannot be obtained at a fair price. 

EXPENDITURES 
  
Development and Copyright of 
Materials 
R-8333 
Business Services 5 of 8 
 
6.3.4 Article and small excerpts are authorized to be copies of not more than 
one article or other contribution of a periodical or a small part of any 
copyrighted work if copied. This copy must become the property of the 
user. The library must display a warning that copies are made in accord 
with the regulations of the Register of Copyrights. 
6.3.5 Out-of-print works may be copied if it is established that a copy cannot be 
found at a fair price, but every effort should be made to locate a copy. The 
copy must become the property of the user, and copies must display a 
warning that copies are made in accordance with the regulations of the 
Register of Copyright. 
6.3.6 Making copies to fill interlibrary requests is not permitted if this copying 
is done in such "aggregate quantities as to substitute for a subscription to, 
or purchase of, such work". This phrase is interpreted to mean: 
6.3.6.1 Requests within a calendar year for six (6) or more copies of an 
article or articles published within five (5) years in any given 
periodical; 
6.3.6.2 requests within a calendar year for a total of six (6) or more copies 
or phonorecords from any given work. 
6.3.7 All requests must carry a representation from the requesting library that 
the request conforms to the guidelines. 
6.3.8 District libraries will maintain records of all incoming and outgoing 
requests for three (3) calendar years. 
6.4 Provisions Regarding Performances and Display 
6.4.1 Performance or display of a work in the course of face-to-face teaching 
activities in a non-profit educational institution is not an infringement of 
copyright. (17 USC, Section 110) 
6.4.2 Performance of non-dramatic literary or musical work transmitted by 
instructional broadcasting is not an infringement of copyright when: 
6.4.2.1 The performance is a regular part of instructional activities; 
6.4.2.2 the performance is directly related to the teaching content; 
6.4.2.3 the transmission is to classrooms, to disabled people unable to go 
to a classroom, or to officers and employees of governmental 
bodies as part of their official duties. 
6.4.3 Slides, Video and Radio Tapes, Films, Sound Recordings, Dramatic 
Works, Pantomimes, etc.: 

EXPENDITURES 
  
Development and Copyright of 
Materials 
R-8333 
Business Services 6 of 8 
 
6.4.3.1 A single copy of recordings of musical and dramatic performances 
by students may be made for evaluation and may be retained by the 
instructor. 
6.4.3.2 A single copy of a sound recording of copyrighted music may be 
made from sound recordings owned by the college or the instructor 
for the purpose of constructing aural exercises or examinations. 
(This pertains to copyrighted music and not to the copyright of the 
sound recording.) 
6.5 Prohibited Uses 
6.5.1 Staff shall comply with standard copyright uses. Displays and 
performances of audiovisual works are prohibited in nonprofit educational 
institutions when: 
6.5.1.1 They are used for entertainment, recreation, or even for their 
cultural or intellectual value but are unrelated to teaching activity. 
6.5.1.2 They are shown in an auditorium or stadium before an audience 
not confined to students, such as a sporting event, graduation 
ceremony, or community lecture or arts series. 
6.5.1.3 They involve an illegally-acquired or duplicated copy of the work. 
6.6 Royalties: 
6.6.1 Under the Copyright Act of 1976 which repealed the not-for-profit 
exemption for performances of musical works, colleges and owners of 
facilities will be liable for royalty payments on all music played when the 
performer is compensated. In addition, institutions may also be liable for 
royalties on music performed either live or on record when there is an 
admission charge to the event. 
6.6.1.1 Executing music licensing agreements shall be the responsibility of 
each College and shall be administered by the Chief 
Administrative Officers including the filing of reports as may be 
required by the licensing contracts. 
7.0 Use of Copying Machines and Services 
7.1 To eliminate District liability, all unsupervised copying machines shall be labeled 
with the following notice: "Notice: The copyright law of the United States (Title 
17 U.S. Code) governs the making of (photo) copies of any copyrighted material. 
The person using this equipment is liable for any infringement". 
7.2 The District may be held liable for infringement of copyrights resulting from 
copying performed in its staffed duplicating centers. Therefore, initial clearance 
authority for questionable requests for copies of copyrighted materials lies with 

EXPENDITURES 
  
Development and Copyright of 
Materials 
R-8333 
Business Services 7 of 8 
 
the administrative head of the campus duplicating center. Decisions by this 
supervisor may be appealed by the faculty or staff member to the vice president of 
instruction who shall make a final decision. 
8.0 Guidelines for Using Computer Programs 
8.1 A district employee shall observe copyright protection when using a computer 
program(s) whether a program bears a copyright mark or not, unless it is marked 
as a public domain program. 
8.2 A district employee using a computer program purchased under a license 
agreement, shall read and follow conditions and restrictions stipulated in the 
license agreement. In general, the conditions and restrictions of the license 
agreement may stipulate the following: 
8.2.1 The computer program is covered by copyright; the original will be stored 
in the archive and the backup copy is used. 
8.2.2 A copy of the computer program is allowed only for archival purpose; the 
original will be stored in the archive, and the back-up copy is used. 
8.2.3 Modifications to the computer program are not allowed; 
8.2.4 Decompiling (i.e., reverse engineering) of the program code is not allowed 
without the permission of the copyright owner; 
8.2.5 Development of new works built upon the original work (derivative work) 
is not allowed without the permission of the copyright owner; 
8.2.6 Installation of the computer program is only allowed on a type of system 
(i.e., stand-alone or network server) and/or a specific computer(s). 
8.3 A district employee shall not make a copy of a computer program for use other 
than as specifically permitted under the license agreement or a copyright 
protection. Lack of a copyright protection does not constitute permission to copy 
without the permission of the copyright owner. An exception is the PUBLIC 
DOMAIN program. 
8.4 A district employee shall exercise caution in applying the "fair use" amendments 
to the copyright law that is intended to allow educational use of legally-protected 
products. For most computer programs, it is clearly illegal to make and distribute 
unauthorized, fully-functional copies to class members for their individual use. 
When the use of the computer program is in doubt, a district employee will check 
with the copyright owner or consult the appropriate District authorities before use. 
(Formerly R-8442) 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 11/28/78  
Adm. Regulation Revised: 2/4/81; 6/16/82; 11/10/92; 9/12/03 

EXPENDITURES 
  
Development and Copyright of 
Materials 
R-8333 
Business Services 8 of 8 
 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 8/27/15 
Board Policy: P-8333