ADMISSIONS AND RECORDS 
 
Student Parking Fees R-2252 
Student Fees 1 of 6 
 
1.0 Parking Fees/Refunds 
1.1 Pursuant to Education Code, section 76360, all students parking a motorized 
vehicle in designated student parking spaces at the Colleges must pay a parking 
fee. 
1.1.1 All parking fees collected shall be expended for parking services, which 
include the purchase, construction, operation, security and maintenance of 
the parking facilities. 
1.2 Semester or summer session permits are available only to students of the Los Rios 
Community College District. Student parking permits may be purchased in 
accordance with the following established rates:  
Parking Fees Effective June 2017 
Vehicles  
Semester  $40.00 
Daily  $2.00 
Summer Session $25.00 
 
Parking Fees Effective June 2017 
Motorcycles  
Semester $25.00 
Summer Session $15.00 
1.2.1 Semester or summer session permit fees and the maximum fee for 
certified carpools will be increased by $1.00 whenever the provisions in 
Education Code, section 76360 allow for a $1.00 increase, which is no 
more frequently than annually. An increase will be implemented for the 
upcoming summer and fall terms if known prior to the opening of 
registration. Otherwise, the increase will be implemented with the spring 
term. 
1.2.2 Fees assessed to students who (a) are recipients of benefits under the 
Temporary Assistance for Needy Families program, the Supplemental 
Security Income/State Supplementary Program, or a general assistance 
program, (b) demonstrate eligibility according to income standards 
established by the regulations of the Board of Governors, or (c) 
demonstrate financial need in accordance with the methodology set forth 
in federal law or regulation for determining the expected family 
contribution of students seeking financial aid, are exempt from parking 
fees in excess of Thirty Dollars ($30.00) per semester. (Ed. Code, § 
76360). To qualify for this exemption, students must meet minimum 
academic and progress standards adopted by the Board of Governors. The 
exemption will change in accordance with changes in the Education Code. 

ADMISSIONS AND RECORDS 
 
Student Parking Fees R-2252 
Student Fees 2 of 6 
 
1.2.3 Current fee schedules will be available at the College Business Services 
Offices and the police departments. 
1.2.4 Semester or summer session permits for certified carpools shall not exceed 
Thirty-Five Dollars ($35) per semester. A certified carpool is for a student 
who certifies, in accordance with the procedure established by the College 
Business Services Office, that he or she regularly has two or more 
passengers commuting to the College with him or her in the vehicle 
parked at the College. 
1.3 Plastic holders/hangers for portable semester or summer session permits are 
available at a price established by each College. 
1.4 Students attending classes exclusively at off-campus sites, where District parking 
facilities are not available, are exempt from paying District parking fees. 
1.5 Parking Refund Applications must be completed and filed with the College 
Business Services Office. The date the refund application is received by the 
College Business Services Office determines refund eligibility. The portion of the 
semester or summer session permit containing the permit number must be 
attached to the refund application along with the original parking receipt. Refunds 
of parking fees are issued as follows: 
1.5.1 The parking fee is fully refundable during the first ten (10) school days of 
instruction during each semester. There will be no refunds after the first 
ten (10) school days of instruction. 
1.5.2 During the summer session, the parking fee is fully refundable during the 
first week of instruction. There will be no refunds after the first week of 
summer session instruction. 
1.6 Sinking Fund 
1.6.1 A sinking fund for lot maintenance, parking lot lighting projects, 
equipment replacement (permit dispensers, etc.), costs incurred for 
accommodation of persons with disabilities (Ed. Code, § 67311.5) and 
other parking-related needs shall be maintained and established from 
parking fees. Such amounts will be funded as long as sufficient fee 
revenues are received to provide such annual funding. 
1.7 Additional parking fees may be charged for special events held on 
District/College property. In those cases, the parking fund shall be credited with 
the daily permit rate for the spaces sold for the event. 
1.8 Bicycles are not subject to parking fees. 

ADMISSIONS AND RECORDS 
 
Student Parking Fees R-2252 
Student Fees 3 of 6 
 
2.0 Parking Permits 
2.1 Students parking at College facilities must display a valid parking permit. There 
are two types of student parking permits: a current semester or summer session 
permit (in the form of a decal), or a daily permit. Students driving motorcycles are 
encouraged to use semester or summer session permits rather than daily permits. 
2.2 A current semester or summer session permit is valid at any District/College 
location. 
2.3 A daily permit is valid only for the date issued at the College where the daily 
permit was purchased. 
2.4 A vehicle with a valid student parking permit may only park in spaces designated 
for student parking. 
2.5 The semester or summer session permits must be attached to the vehicle as 
designated by campus operating procedures. Semester and summer session 
permits are not transferable. 
2.6 Daily permits must be displayed on top of the vehicle dashboard (on the 
passenger’s side) with permit number and date clearly visible through vehicle 
windshield. Remove expired daily permits from the dashboard. 
2.7 Carpoolers may not share a single semester or summer session permit. They have 
the option of buying a semester or summer session permit for each vehicle 
involved in the carpool or may utilize the daily permit (see Section 4.1.4 below). 
2.8 A family unit having two or more students attending a College must purchase a 
semester or summer session permit for each vehicle parked on campus or may 
utilize the daily permit. 
2.9 An individual student having more than one motor vehicle registered in his/her 
name may purchase one semester or summer session permit for all vehicles 
registered with the College. The semester or summer session permit is “portable” 
and must be suspended from the rear view mirror of a vehicle it is registered to so 
that it is readily visible from the exterior of the vehicle. A semester or summer 
session permit, a Regional Transit monthly permit (at Cosumnes River College 
only), or a daily permit is not valid if copied or reproduced in any manner. 
2.10 If a semester or summer session permit is lost or stolen, a new semester or 
summer session permit must be purchased at the rate set forth below. 
2.11 If a vehicle is sold or damaged (i.e., windshield damage) during the effective term 
of the semester or summer session permit, a replacement will be issued if the 
proof of sale or repair of vehicle and the old semester or summer session permit 
(permit number intact) are submitted. In the appropriate circumstances, the 
College Business Services Office may waive this requirement. A charge of Two 

ADMISSIONS AND RECORDS 
 
Student Parking Fees R-2252 
Student Fees 4 of 6 
 
Dollars ($2.00) will be assessed for replacement semester or summer session 
permits. 
2.12 Vehicles may park in a green visitor parking space without any permit for the 
time permitted for that space. 
3.0 Parking Rules 
3.1 A valid parking permit is required 24 hours a day, seven days per week. 
Overnight parking is not permitted without written permission from the Los Rios 
Police Department. 
3.2 All other parking regulations are enforced 24 hours a day, seven days per week. 
3.3 All vehicles must adhere to parking regulations and are subject to citations and 
fines as provided by California Vehicle Code, section 21113, subdivision (a). 
3.4 Vehicles not properly parked within the designated parking spaces or parking in 
out-of-zone areas may be subject to parking citation and/or be towed away at 
owner’s expense. 
3.5 Vehicles parked illegally in red zones and other unauthorized spaces such as 
parking spaces designated for persons with disabilities may be subject to parking 
citation and/or be towed away at owner’s expense. 
3.6 Colleges may designate parking spaces as visitor parking, student parking, staff 
parking, semester permit only parking, daily permit only parking, or any 
combination thereof. 
3.7 Bicycles must be parked in designated areas or bicycle racks located on campus. 
3.8 The issuance of a parking permit does not guarantee parking availability. The 
responsibility of finding legal parking spaces rests with the motor vehicle 
operator. Lack of parking spaces is not considered a valid reason for violation of 
District parking regulations and California Vehicle Code provisions. 
4.0 Parking Citation Payment Plan 
4.1 A registered owner or person responsible for vehicle citations received on the 
District’s property shall be eligible to enroll in a payment plan when they have 
multiple unpaid parking citations in excess of a dollar amount established by the 
Chief of the Los Rios Police Department. 
4.1.1 Late fees shall be placed in abeyance while the payment plan is in place 
and the individual adheres to its terms, and shall be waived once the 
payment plan is completed. 
4.1.2 Once the payment plan is in place and the individual adheres to its terms, 
an itemization of unpaid parking penalties and service fees as described in 

ADMISSIONS AND RECORDS 
 
Student Parking Fees R-2252 
Student Fees 5 of 6 
 
section 4.1.1 shall not be filed with the Department of Motor Vehicles, 
and any DMV Registration Hold(s) in place will be temporarily removed 
pending satisfactory completion of the payment plan. 
 
4.1.3 If an individual defaults on the payment plan, a subsequent payment plan 
will not be offered for those citations and any late fees placed in abeyance 
will be immediately reinstated. The total amount due, including all late 
fees, will be submitted to the appropriate Department of Motor Vehicles 
for a Registration Hold on the vehicle. An Academic Hold will be placed 
on the student’s records until the total fees are paid in full. 
4.1.4 The terms and conditions of the parking citation payment plan shall be 
posted on the Los Rios Police Department’s website. 
4.1.5 If additional citations are accrued during the payment plan period, the plan 
may not be modified to include these citations, nor will a concurrent 
payment plan be offered. 
4.1.6 Citations in a payment plan will not count towards 
immobilization/tow/impound eligibility pursuant to CVC 22651(i)(l). 
4.1.7 Once a vehicle is immobilized/towed/impounded due to other violations, 
all citations, including those on a payment plan, are immediately due 
pursuant to CVC 22651(i)(l)(C). 
5.0 Parking for Persons with Disabilities 
5.1 The unique placard issued by Department of Motor Vehicles or a distinguishing 
license plate for persons with disabilities and either the semester or summer 
session permit or valid daily permit must be properly displayed on the vehicle. 
5.2 Students with a temporary disability may obtain a special permit that allows 
parking in spaces designated for disabled persons. Students who are temporarily 
disabled who are issued the special permit are still subject to paying the 
established parking fee. The special permit due to the temporary disability and 
either the semester or summer session permit or valid daily permit must be 
properly displayed on the vehicle. 
5.3 Vehicles not displaying the appropriate license plate, placard or special permit 
may be subject to parking citation and/or be towed away at owner’s expense. 
5.4 The definition of a student with disabilities is described per provisions of the 
California Vehicle Code relating to parking exemptions (Veh. Code, § 22511.5). 
5.5 Students with disabilities may use the designated parking spaces provided for 
persons with disabilities, staff, visitors or any other student parking spaces 
provided. 

ADMISSIONS AND RECORDS 
 
Student Parking Fees R-2252 
Student Fees 6 of 6 
 
5.5.1 Each College shall designate a minimum percentage of available campus 
parking spaces for use by students with disabilities following all state 
building code requirements (Gov. Code, § 14679, Ca. Code, Title 24, 
§ 2.7102 and Fed. Reg., Title 24 and 36, § 1190.31). 
6.0 Warranty, Liability 
6.1 The District/College(s) makes no warranty and accepts no liability or 
responsibility for loss or damage to any vehicle or its contents while parked at a 
District/College facility. In addition, the District/College(s) assumes no liability 
for injury to persons or property from the use or exercise of the license provided 
by a parking permit. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 5/4/83 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 12/2/70; 1/14/81; 2/17/82; 4/6/83; 4/17/91; 6/4/97; 12/9/98; 
9/3/03; 5/14/08; 7/10/84; 4/5/89; 5/1/91; 1/24/96; 4/9/97; 
12/2/13; 5/14/14; 9/28/15; 3/27/17; 9/11/17;11/26/18 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 3/27/17; 11/26/18 
Board Policy: P-2252