STUDENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
Drug and Alcohol Testing R-2443 
Standards of Conduct and Due Process 1 of 1 
 
1.0 Drug Testing for Nursing Program 
1.1 Students accepted to the nursing program shall complete an "8-panel drug screen" 
test prior to beginning the program. The student acceptance letter shall provide 
the date the drug screen must be completed. 
1.1.1 This test must include screening for alcohol, amphetamines, barbiturates, 
benzodiazepines, cocaine, marijuana, opiates, and phencyclidine. 
1.1.2 Students must use a lab approved by the Joint Commission on 
Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO) or College of 
American Pathologists (CAP).  
1.1.3 The testing procedure does not require chain of custody.  
1.1.4 The student shall be responsible for the cost of the drug screening.  
1.2 Students who test positive for any of the above substances and do not clear the 
results outlined below will not be allowed to enter the nursing program.  
1.2.1 Students who test positive for any of the above substances on the initial 8-
panel drug screen will have until one week before the start of the semester 
to demonstrate negative results (i.e., no evidence of drugs). Students who 
fail to clear the 8-panel drug screen on the second attempt will be denied 
entrance into the nursing program. 
1.2.2 Disqualified students may reapply for the program the next semester. 
Students will need to complete a new program application and will be 
considered as part of the new applicant pool. Acceptance will be 
conditioned on clearing all health-related requirements, including the 8-
panel drug screen test.  
1.3 As with all student health information, results of the 8-panel drug screen will be 
kept confidential to the extent permitted by law. Health records are kept in a 
secured location, accessible only to the College Nurse, Health Center Medical 
Assistant and Director/Coordinator of Nursing.  
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 3/28/05 
Adm. Regulation Revised:  
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 2/19/15 
Board Policy: P-2443