COMPENSATION AND SCHEDULE Miscellaneous Leaves R-9238 
Leaves and Absences 1 of 2 
 
1.0 Leave for Bereavement or Critical Illness of Immediate Family and 
Quarantine 
1.1 The employee shall request such leaves of the immediate supervisor. If time does 
not permit such notice, the employee shall notify the supervisor of the leave and 
estimated duration as soon as possible. 
1.1.1 The immediate supervisor or manager may request a written statement 
from the attending physician attesting to the need of the employee during 
critical illness of immediate family. 
1.1.2 A statement from a qualified physician or public health authority verifying 
the quarantine restriction is required upon return to work when quarantine 
leave is used. 
1.2 The employee shall complete a report of absence form upon return to work. 
2.0 Leave for Jury Duty or Required Court Appearance 
2.1 The employee shall notify the supervisor of jury duty or required court 
appearance as far in advance of the leave as possible. (Education Code § 87036) 
2.2 Upon return to work, the employee must complete a report of absence form and 
submit it to the immediate supervisor. The employee is expected to return to work 
whenever it is not necessary to be absent the entire day. 
2.3 A copy of the subpoena must be attached to the report of absence form. 
3.0 Leave for Military Service 
3.1 The employee shall forward a request for Leave for Military Service to the 
Chancellor through the appropriate administrative channels. A copy of the 
military orders shall be attached to the request. If it is determined that a request to 
defer military service should be forwarded to the military unit, the Human 
Resources Office shall do so at the request of the manager. 
3.2 Upon return to work, the employee shall submit a report of absence form to the 
Human Resources Office through the appropriate administrative channels, with 
the military orders requiring duty attached. 
3.3 A regular employee will receive benefits during Leave for Military Service of 
active training as provided for in the Military and Veterans Code, and salary for 
one (1) calendar month. (Military & Veterans Code § 395.01-395.05) 
3.4 An employee on Military Service Leave has the right to return to a position in the 
same or similar class within twelve (12) months after the first day of active 
military status. 

COMPENSATION AND SCHEDULE Miscellaneous Leaves R-9238 
Leaves and Absences 2 of 2 
 
4.0 Personal Business Leave 
4.1 All requests for personal business leave must be approved in advance, except in 
extenuating circumstances by the appropriate supervisor, or appropriate District 
Office Administrator; this leave is not to be used for vacation, recreation, or 
associated travel. 
4.2 The employee shall report the personal business leave on the designated report of 
absence form and submit it through appropriate administrative channels. 
5.0 Leave for Birth of Child 
5.1 Employee shall request a Leave for Birth of Child in advance or notify the 
immediate supervisor at the earliest convenience. 
5.2 Upon return to work, the employee must complete a report of absence form, and 
submit it, through appropriate administrative channels, to the Employee Benefits 
Department. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 2/21/78 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 2/18/81; 6/16/82; 10/23/90; 10/26/98; 11/28/05  
Adm. Regulation Reviewed:  
Board Policy: P-9238