EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Human Resource Records R-5171 
Employment Policies 1 of 3 
 
1.0 Review of Personnel Files 
1.1 Any employee may examine his/her own personnel file in the District Office by 
requesting an appointment with the custodian of records. In the review of the file, 
the employee may be accompanied by an another individual. 
2.0 Access to Personnel Files by Officers and Other Employees of the 
District 
2.1 In order to preserve the confidentiality of the contents of personnel files, rules 
regulating access to personnel files are hereby established. 
3.0 Access to Personnel Files 
3.1 Confidential File Contents 
3.1.1 The application and materials relating to employment and evaluation of an 
employee's performance shall become part of the employee's permanent 
confidential record. The contents of an employee's personnel folder shall 
not be removed from the file of the Human Resources Department. 
(Education Code § 87031) 
3.1.2 Ratings, reports, or records which were obtained prior to employment with 
the District, were prepared by identifiable examination committee 
members, or were obtained in connection with a promotional examination 
are not subject to the employee's review. 
3.1.3 Employees are encouraged to submit transcripts, certificates of 
completion, workshop, or seminar attendance, verification of professional 
organization participation, etc., to their personnel files so that achievement 
and accomplishments may be considered for promotional opportunities. 
3.2 Custodian of Records 
3.2.1 The custodian of all personnel files maintained at the District's central 
administrative office shall be the Director, Human Resources. The 
custodian of personnel files shall maintain such files in a secure place at 
all times and shall control access thereto in accordance with the 
regulations hereby established. 
3.3 Examination by Employees  
3.3.1 A classified employee may examine his/her own permanent personnel 
record file by requesting an appointment with the custodian of records. In 
review of the file, the employee may be accompanied by another 
individual or a representative of a recognized classified group to which the 
individual belongs. 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Human Resource Records R-5171 
Employment Policies 2 of 3 
 
3.3.2 The employee will be permitted to review his/her permanent personnel 
record at the District Office in the presence of the custodian of records or 
designated representative. 
3.3.3 The employee may not remove documents permanently from the 
personnel folder, but the individual may request to have single copies 
made for personal use. The employee shall bear the cost of this 
reproduction. 
3.4 Examination by Others 
3.4.1 Supervisory personnel may review the contents of an employee's 
personnel folder on a "need-to-know" basis. The review will be made in 
the presence of the custodian of records. 
3.4.2 The custodian of records may permit access to personnel files to 
designated staff for the purposes of filing documents and gathering data in 
the normal course of District operations. 
3.4.3 Properly identified individuals having legal investigative authority will 
consult with the custodian of records regarding the review of confidential 
employee records. The custodian of records will follow procedures 
outlined in Section 6.0 of this regulation when allowing confidential 
employee records to be inspected pursuant to this section and Section 4.4. 
3.4.4 Other persons will be allowed to review the employee's confidential 
records only by written permission of the employee. 
3.5 Material of a Derogatory Nature 
3.5.1 Information which is disciplinary in nature or may lead to disciplinary 
action, except as mentioned in Section 1.2 above, shall not be entered or 
filed into the employee's permanent personnel record unless the employee 
is notified and given an opportunity to review and comment on the 
materials. 
3.6 Procedure 
3.6.1 Any person allowed by the custodian of records to inspect a personnel file 
pursuant to the provisions of this regulation shall, as a condition precedent 
to such inspection, fill out and sign a form which states the purpose for 
which the inspection is to be made, the date of inspection, and containing 
the signature of the person who makes the inspection. The completed form 
shall be placed in the personnel file inspected. 
3.6.2 With respect to inspection of a personnel file pursuant to the provisions of 
Sections 4.3 and 4.4 of this regulation, copies of the contents of the files 
shall not be given to persons making the inspection except by order of the 
custodian of records. 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Human Resource Records R-5171 
Employment Policies 3 of 3 
 
3.6.3 Persons who have inspected personnel files pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 4.0 of this regulation shall not divulge information derived 
therefrom to any person who is not an officer or employee of the District, 
or to another officer or employee of the District except when necessary in 
the conduct of District business 
 (Formerly R-5133) 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 9/2/70 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 9/3/80; 10/20/82; 10/9/00 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed:  
Board Policy: P-5171