MEETINGS OF THE BOARD 
 
Handling Negotiating 
Proposals   
R-3218 
Meetings 1 of 2 
 
1.0 Handling Exclusive Representative Negotiating Proposals 
1.1 In order to be listed on Board meeting agendas, exclusive representatives (unions 
and associations) shall make advanced written requests to the Chancellor when they 
wish to present proposals to the Los Rios Community College District Board of 
Trustees or to be heard on negotiating matters. 
1.2 In order for the public to be properly informed and to provide adequate processing 
and posting time, exclusive representative Board meeting agenda requests must be 
received in the Chancellor's office ten (10) workdays in advance of a Board meeting, 
or be held over for the subsequent meeting. Exceptions to this requirement may only 
be made for extraordinary reasons as determined by the Chancellor and the Board 
President. 
1.3 When an exclusive representative requests a Board meeting agenda listing to present 
a proposal, the District Public Information Office shall notify the media of the date 
the proposal will be made at a public meeting.  
1.4 Only exclusive representatives (officers or their representatives) shall present a 
proposal. Proposal presentations shall be limited to fifteen (15) minutes. Time 
extensions call for a ruling of the Board President. 
1.5 The exclusive representative shall provide fifty (50) copies of the proposal for the 
Board of Trustees, the Chancellor, the media, and the public. 
1.6 Following proposal presentation by an exclusive representative, the Board of 
Trustees shall refer the proposal to the Chancellor for staff study and for scheduling 
a public hearing on the proposal within thirty (30) calendar days (maximum). 
2.0 Public Hearings About Exclusive Representative Proposals 
2.1 Public Hearings shall be at regular meetings of the Board of Trustees if the agenda 
permits, or special meetings may be called for this purpose. 
2.2 At least five (5) workdays before an exclusive representative proposal is to be 
publicly heard, the media shall be informed of dates, times and locations. 
2.3 The public hearing is held to provide an opportunity for citizens and students to be 
heard. Although there is no set length of time for such public hearings, generally the 
hearing shall be limited to two (2) hours. The public hearing shall be conducted in 
accordance with the District Policy for public participation at meetings. 
3.0 Handling the District’s Initial Proposal 
3.1 At least five (5) workdays before a Los Rios Community College District’s initial 
proposal is to be heard, the media shall be informed of the dates, times and 
locations. 

MEETINGS OF THE BOARD 
 
Handling Negotiating 
Proposals   
R-3218 
Meetings 2 of 2 
 
3.2 The initial District proposal shall be made by the Chancellor or designee. This 
presentation shall be limited to fifteen (15) minutes. Time extensions call for a 
ruling of the Board President. 
4.0 Public Hearings About District’s Initial Proposals 
4.1 Citizens and students who wish to express themselves about the District’s initial 
proposal may be heard in a manner similar to that provided in Section 2.3 at the 
hearing scheduled by the Board President. 
4.2 The Chancellor shall provide copies of the District’s initial proposal to be made 
available to the exclusive representative, media and the public. 
5.0 Negotiations 
5.1 After the above items have taken place, the meeting and negotiating process shall 
begin. 
5.2 All new subjects of meeting and negotiating, whether proposed by the exclusive 
representative or the District, shall be posted by the District on the official District 
Office bulletin board in the District Administration Building. No meeting and 
negotiating shall take place on the subject until the item has been posted for a 
minimum of twenty-four (24) hours. 
5.3 Negotiations shall be conducted as prescribed by law. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 8/3/77 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 9/3/80; 10/20/82; 4/17/91; 4/28/97; 9/23/13 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 9/23/13 
Board Policy: P-3218