EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Recruitment, Selection, and Appointment: 
Temporary Positions 
R-6123 
Recruitment and Appointment 1 of 4 
 
1.0 Hiring Temporary Classified Employees 
1.1 Long-term temporary employees shall be hired pursuant to the procedures 
established for regular classified employees. 
1.2 Short-term temporary employees shall be hired pursuant to the procedures set 
forth in this regulation. 
2.0 Building the Applicant Pool 
2.1 The Los Rios Community College District Human Resources Office maintains a 
pool of temporary clerical and secretarial employees available for employment. 
2.2 Persons may be added to the pool providing they complete the appropriate 
paperwork and meet the minimum qualifications, if appropriate. 
2.3 Job announcements shall clearly state the job classification and shall set forth 
those skills which are necessary for job performance, including the required 
training and experience related to those skills. Only bona fide occupational 
qualifications shall be included in job announcements. 
2.4 The District shall be identified as an Equal Opportunity Employer.  
2.5 Managers may independently contact potential temporary employees, utilize the 
pool, or request assistance from the Human Resources Office. 
3.0 Limitations on the Use of Temporary Employees 
3.1 Long-term temporary employees shall not be employed for more than one 
hundred seventy-five (175) days in any fiscal year. 
3.2 Short-term temporary employees shall not be employed for more than 135 days in 
any fiscal year.  
3.3 Short-term temporary employees shall not be employed for more than 960 hours 
in any fiscal year.  
3.4 Exceptions to the hour or day limit are allowable with the authorization of the 
Associate Vice Chancellor, Human Resources, or designee.  
3.5 Short-term temporary employees shall be hired to perform services, upon the 
completion of which, the service required or similar services will not be extended 
or needed on a continuing basis. 
3.5.1 Examples of such services include remodels of particular buildings, 
services related to a project with a fixed starting and ending date, services 
related to an emergency, services needed during a peak period of the year, 
services to fill a vacancy, and other similar services. 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Recruitment, Selection, and Appointment: 
Temporary Positions 
R-6123 
Recruitment and Appointment 2 of 4 
 
4.0 Interviewing Short-Term Temporary Employees 
4.1 Managers wishing to interview persons to fill a temporary assignment are 
responsible for scheduling the interview and notifying the successful applicant. 
5.0 Application Review Process 
5.1 Applicants and employees with felony convictions and applicants and 
employees that are disqualified for service under Education Code, sections 
87010, 87011, 87405, or 88022 shall be individually evaluated based on 
the requirements of the position following factors: 
5.1.1 Nature and Gravity of the Offense(s). The Human Resources 
Office shall evaluate felony conviction(s) to determine the nature 
and severity of the offense(s) or conduct. This evaluation may take 
into account the harm caused by the crime, the elements of the 
crime, and the severity of the crime. A more severe crime would 
tend towards disqualifying the applicant.   
5.1.2 Time That Has Passed Since the Offense(s) or Conviction(s). The 
Human Resources Office shall evaluate the amount of time that has 
passed since the most recent offense or conviction and any prior 
offense(s). A single offense or a last offense committed more than 
ten years prior to the application date suggests an applicant will not 
recidivate. Subsequent employment history and efforts at 
rehabilitation is relevant to this inquiry. Crimes committed more 
recently would tend towards disqualifying the applicant. 
5.1.3  Nature of the Job Held or Sought. In light of the first two factors, 
the Director of Human Resources shall examine the nature of the 
duties and essential functions of the job held or sought to 
determine if excluding the applicant is consistent with business 
necessity. Consideration may be given to the location of the job 
and the persons the applicant will come into contact with in the 
job. For example, convictions of property, theft, or larceny crimes 
tend toward disqualifying applicants for positions of trust or 
positions that control money or property. Convictions for violent 
felonies would tend towards disqualifying applicants from 
positions that require contact with students, staff, or the public. 
5.1.4 Applicants with disqualifying convictions shall be notified that 
they have been screened out due to a felony conviction and 
provided with an opportunity to demonstrate that they should not 
screened out due to the applicant’s particular circumstances. The 
Human Resources Office shall review this information prior to 
making a final decision. 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Recruitment, Selection, and Appointment: 
Temporary Positions 
R-6123 
Recruitment and Appointment 3 of 4 
 
6.0 Criminal Background Check 
6.1 Applicants shall be fingerprinted at the State Department of Justice or other 
qualified law enforcement agency. Employment shall not commence until 
clearance has been approved by Human Resources. The Human Resources Office 
shall review any new felony convictions that are discovered during this process 
under the process set forth in 5.1, above, and shall also take into account whether 
the failure to disclose the conviction was dishonest. 
6.2 Applicants shall be required to pay the cost of the fingerprinting and processing.  
If the District desires an expedited process, the District shall pay the cost of the 
expedited process. 
6.3 For applicants fingerprinted at the Department of Justice, the cost of 
fingerprinting and processing shall be deducted from the employee’s initial 
paycheck. If the cost exceeds the first paycheck, any remaining cost will be 
deducted from the subsequent paychecks. Applicants fingerprinted at another 
qualified law enforcement agency shall pay the entire cost and may request 
reimbursement from the District for the expedited charge. 
6.4 When warranted by exigent circumstances as determined by the Associate Vice 
Chancellor, Human Resources, a temporary employee may be permitted to begin 
work prior to clearance having been granted by Human Resources. 
6.5 Police records shall be shown only to those with the legal right to see them. 
7.0 Salary Schedule 
7.1 Short-term temporary employees shall be paid in accordance with the approved 
temporary salary schedule. 
7.2 Long-term temporary employees appointed by the Los Rios Community College 
District Board of Trustees to work six (6) to nine (9) months are entitled to 
benefits in accordance with provisions of the Education Code and other applicable 
Federal and State regulations, and the following District benefits: 
7.2.1 Earned sick leave in proportion to assignment, available only as earned, 
excluding provisions of Education Code, section 88196. 
7.2.2 Health/Dental insurance premium contributions provided by the District in 
proportion to the hours the assignment is annualized. 
7.2.3 Bereavement leaves not to exceed three (3) days (or five [5] days if out-of-
state travel is required). 
7.3 Long-term temporary employees shall not receive vacation leave or other benefits 
except those stated in 7.2. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 10/13/97 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Recruitment, Selection, and Appointment: 
Temporary Positions 
R-6123 
Recruitment and Appointment 4 of 4 
 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 6/16/98; 3/8/99; 5/13/15; 4/25/16; 11/26/18 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 4/25/16; 11/2618 
Board Policy: P-6123