EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 
 
Intent and Accountability 
for Equal Opportunity 
R-2113 
Goals and Objectives 1 of 3 
 
1.0 Non-Discrimination and Equal Access 
1.1 The Los Rios Community College District shall provide financial assistance and 
scholarship opportunities through District funding sources and jobs to all students 
needing financial help in attaining their educational goals without regard for 
ethnic group identification, race, color, sex, gender, gender identity, gender 
expression, pregnancy or childbirth-related condition, sexual orientation, sexual 
identity, religion or religious creed, age (over forty), national origin, ancestry, 
physical or mental disability, medical condition, political affiliation or belief, 
military and veteran status, or marital status.  The Colleges of the District shall: 
1.1.1 Disseminate information concerning all programs regarding financial aid 
scholarships and job placement to the students, faculty and staff through 
the College catalog, the student bulletin, the College newspaper, 
administrative deans, department spokespersons, counselors and through 
posting on bulletin boards. Use appropriate College programs, such as 
College awareness programs and College orientation programs, to 
disseminate information. Visit feeder high schools to inform prospective 
students. 
1.1.2 Advise students regarding their financial situations. 
1.1.3 Ensure that financial assistance is granted on a non-discriminatory basis to 
students with the greater financial need. 
1.2 The recruitment component of Extended Opportunity Programs and Services shall 
be non-discriminatory in reference to ethnic group identification, race, color, sex, 
gender, gender identity, gender expression, pregnancy or childbirth-related 
condition, sexual orientation, sexual identity, religion or religious creed, age (over 
forty), national origin, ancestry, physical or mental disability, medical condition, 
political affiliation or belief, military and veteran status, or marital status. 
1.3 The teaching-learning counseling processes shall ensure that all students are able 
to live in the American society with dignity, mutual respect, and equal educational 
and economic opportunities. 
1.4 The Colleges shall establish procedures for periodic review and evaluation of the 
curriculum, instruction and materials to prevent discriminatory practices and 
materials. 
1.4.1 Assist the instructional division in the review and evaluation of 
instructional practices and materials. 
1.5 The tutorial center shall be established as a learning center for all students on 
campus through the use of the College newspaper, student bulletins, flyers and 
bulletin boards. Ensure non-discrimination in retaining students regardless of 
ethnic group identification, race, color, sex, gender, gender identity, gender 
expression, pregnancy or childbirth-related condition, sexual orientation, sexual 

EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 
 
Intent and Accountability 
for Equal Opportunity 
R-2113 
Goals and Objectives 2 of 3 
 
identity, religion or religious creed, age (over forty), national origin, ancestry, 
physical or mental disability, medical condition, political affiliation or belief, 
military and veteran status, or marital status. 
1.5.1 Make the tutorial center services known to the entire student body and 
particularly to those students identified as needing this service. Use all 
available media on a continuous basis. 
1.5.2 Encourage counselors to make a continuous special effort toward making 
the tutorial center available to students to ensure students’ success in the 
College. 
1.5.3 Expect that counselors will make a continuous special effort to retain 
students. 
1.6 The District shall encourage and increase veteran enrollments by actively 
recruiting veterans in their own community in addition to recruiting servicemen 
and servicewomen at the local military bases. 
1.6.1 Recruit veterans to take advantage of community college education and 
services, through all appropriate local agencies and organizations and by 
contacting local military bases. 
1.6.2 Make veterans’ financial assistance programs known and available to 
veterans while recruiting. 
1.6.3 Make veterans’ financial assistance programs known and available to 
enrolled veterans. 
1.7 Articulate positive programs and curricula with the secondary schools served by 
the District. 
2.0 Implementation of Affirmative Action for Equal Educational 
Opportunity 
2.1 It is the policy of the District to implement affirmative action programs on its 
campuses for the benefit of students belonging to historically underrepresented 
groups as defined in Title 5. To achieve this end, the College President shall: 
2.1.1 Encourage enrollment of members of historically underrepresented groups 
in all programs and activities. 
2.1.1.1 Review underrepresented group census data and analysis of 
programs and activities by instructional division. 
2.1.1.2 Meet with appropriate instructional division personnel to 
determine ways in which counselors may or should assist in taking 
corrective action. 

EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 
 
Intent and Accountability 
for Equal Opportunity 
R-2113 
Goals and Objectives 3 of 3 
 
2.1.2 Maintain positive programs and counseling directed to admission of 
historically underrepresented students into non-traditional occupational 
training programs. 
2.1.3 Ensure equal access and encourage participation of historically 
underrepresented students in all college programs, activities and services. 
2.1.3.1 Counsel students on availability of all programs. 
2.1.3.2 Assist students with scheduling conflicts. 
2.1.3.3 Develop an awareness on the part of all students of the programs, 
activities and services available at the College. 
2.1.4 Implement relevant and effective counseling programs for students of 
historically underrepresented groups, and create opportunities to broaden 
the appreciation and understanding of cultural and individual differences 
on the part of all students. 
2.2 Nothing in these regulations shall be interpreted to prohibit bona fide academic 
requirements for a specific community college program, course, or activity. (Title 
5, § 59302) 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 1/23/74 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 11/19/80; 2/10/82; 3/6/96; 9/26/16 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 9/26/16 
Board Policy: P-2113