SECURITY SERVICES 
 
General Conditions   R-6711 
Los Rios Police Department 1 of 3 
 
1.0 Purpose 
1.1 The primary function of the Los Rios Police Department (LRPD) is to protect the 
safety of Los Rios Community College District students and staff, control and 
monitor parking, and secure the facilities of the District. 
1.2 The LRPD shall enforce the law on or near the campuses of the District and on 
grounds or properties owned, operated, or administered by the District (Ed. Code, 
§ 72330). This includes any location a District student or staff member may park 
or attend for a District function. 
2.0 Status 
2.1 LRPD is established under Education Code, section 72330. District police officers 
are peace officers as defined in section 830.32 of the California Penal Code and 
members of the classified service as described in Education Code, section 88000. 
College safety officers are not peace officers. 
3.0 Eligibility for Police Officer Status 
3.1 In order to qualify as a police officer of the LRPD, a candidate shall complete the 
Regular Basic Course as prescribed by California Peace Officer Standards and 
Training (POST) and in accordance with Penal Code 832.3 prior to exercising the 
powers of a peace officer. 
3.1.1 Selection – Police officer selection will be conducted in accordance with 
District Policy and Administrative Regulation P/R-6122. 
3.1.2 Background Investigation – Prior to employment each candidate must 
undergo a thorough background investigation in accordance with 
Government Code, section 1031. 
3.1.3 Psychological Examination – Prior to employment, each candidate must 
pass a psychological examination.  
3.1.4 Physical Examination – Prior to employment, each candidate must pass a 
complete physical examination. 
3.1.5 Continued Professional Training (CPT) is required for the purpose of 
maintaining, updating, expanding, and/or enhancing an individual’s 
knowledge and/or skills. CPT exceeds the training required to meet or 
requalify entry-level minimum standard. Every officer must satisfactorily 
complete CPT every two years. 
4.0  Eligibility for College Safety Officer Status  
4.1 College safety officers are not required to meet all the standards set forth in 
section 3.1. 

SECURITY SERVICES 
 
General Conditions   R-6711 
Los Rios Police Department 2 of 3 
 
4.2 College safety officers shall not exercise peace officer powers such as arrest 
power. 
4.3 College safety officer selection will be conducted in accordance with District 
Policy and Administrative Regulation P/R-6122. 
4.4 Background Investigation – Prior to employment each candidate must undergo a 
thorough background investigation along with a physical and psychological 
examination to assure the District that no condition exists that may adversely 
affect the performance of his/her assigned duties. 
4.5 Continued Professional Training (CPT) is required for the purpose of maintaining, 
updating, and expanding the individual’s knowledge and/or skills. Every College 
safety officer must satisfactorily complete the required CPT. 
5.0 Uniforms 
5.1 The District will determine the type of uniform to be worn by and issued to police 
officers, College safety officers, and police communications dispatchers. 
6.0 Jurisdiction 
6.1 District police officers have jurisdiction on or adjacent to each campus or other 
property owned, operated, controlled, or administered by the District, to include 
anywhere a District student or staff member may park or attend for a District 
function, or to conduct follow-up investigation pertaining to incidents initiated on 
District property.  
6.2 District police officers must develop and maintain a professional service-oriented 
image while on duty. All District police personnel shall continue to work in close 
harmony and cooperation with local law enforcement agencies. In addition, local 
law enforcement agencies shall continue to be notified immediately of all felonies 
occurring on campus and other crimes, incidents, and events as outlined in a 
memorandum of understanding between that agency and the District. 
7.0 Safety Equipment 
7.1 After successful completion of required training and examination, District police 
officers shall be provided with Board of Trustees sanctioned (P-6711) weapons, 
including batons, chemical agents, and firearms. College safety officers shall not 
carry firearms. 
7.2  After successful completion of required training and examination, College safety 
officers shall be provided with Board of Trustees sanctioned (P-6711) weapons, 
including batons and chemical agents. College safety officers shall not carry 
firearms.  

SECURITY SERVICES 
 
General Conditions   R-6711 
Los Rios Police Department 3 of 3 
 
7.3 District offices shall comply with the use of force general order and all other 
general orders related to the use of firearms, batons, and chemical agents. 
8.0 Chief of Police 
8.1 The Chief of Police has the authority to direct the duties and responsibilities of the 
District police officers, College safety officers, and classified staff assigned to the 
police departments at each respective campus. The Chief of Police and the Vice 
Chancellor, Finance and Administration shall consult with the college Vice 
Presidents of Administration regarding College interests and needs.  
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 5/3/88 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 2/23/04; 5/10/04; 8/23/04; 9/19/05; 1/26/15; 1/25/16 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 1/25/16 
Board Policy: P-6711