STUDENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
Student Grievance 
Procedures 
R-2412 
Student Rights and Responsibilities 1 of 7 
 
1.0 Terms and Definitions 
1.1 A grievable matter is any alleged action or decision of the Los Rios District or 
one of its colleges that adversely affects the status of a student or violates the 
rights of a student as set forth in District Policy P-2412. 
1.2 "Party" shall mean the student and any person(s) alleged to have been responsible 
for the student's alleged grievance. 
1.3 "Student Grievance Officer" means an employee assigned by the Chief Student 
Services Officer to administer the grievance process. 
1.4 As used in these procedures, "Student" includes a person currently enrolled or 
who was enrolled in one or more credit classes in the immediately preceding 
semester or who has filed an application for admission to college.  A grievance by 
a student applicant shall be limited to alleged denial of admission. 
1.5 Unless otherwise provided, as used in these procedures, "days" shall mean 
calendar days, provided, however, that days during winter break, spring break and 
breaks before and after summer sessions shall not be counted as "days." 
1.6 A "formal grievance" is a written allegation by a student, filed in the manner 
prescribed by Section 3.0, alleging that the student was adversely affected by a 
grievable action of the District or the college. 
1.7 "Grievance Form" is a college form which must be filed with the college Student 
Grievance Officer if a formal grievance procedure is followed.  This form is only 
to be used when attempts at informal resolution have failed. 
2.0 Informal Resolution 
2.1 A student believing to have been adversely affected by an act of an instructor, 
administrator, or other staff of the college must make a reasonable, good faith 
attempt to resolve the matter within ten (10) days of the alleged act.  This should 
be done on an informal basis by discussing the matter either with the staff 
member involved, or with the staff member's immediate supervisor. 
2.1.1 Failure of the student to act within the above-specified ten (10) day period 
shall constitute a waiver of the right to pursue the matter further. 
2.2 If the meeting with the staff member or with the immediate supervisor is not 
successful in resolving the problem within ten (10) days, the student may file a 
formal grievance. 
3.0 Formal Process 
3.1 Within five (5) days of the completion of the informal process, and not later than 
twenty-five (25) days from the date of the alleged wrongful act, the student may 

STUDENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
Student Grievance 
Procedures 
R-2412 
Student Rights and Responsibilities 2 of 7 
 
file a formal grievance by submitting a Grievance Form to the college Student 
Grievance Officer.  The name and location of the college Student Grievance 
Officer and the Grievance Form can be obtained from the office of the Chief 
Student Services Officer or the Student Grievance Officer. 
3.2 The grievance must contain a specific statement of the alleged act of wrong-
doing, the name of the person against whom the grievance is filed, the names of 
any witnesses, and the nature of the relief sought by the grievant. 
3.2.1 Relief sought by the grievant shall not include the imposition of 
disciplinary action on an employee. Formal discipline of an employee is a 
matter which is exclusively within the prerogative of the District and is 
confined to the procedures established by law and collective bargaining 
agreements. 
3.2.2 Failure of the student to file the completed grievance form within the 
above-specified time period shall constitute a waiver of any right to 
further proceedings. 
3.3 Within ten (10) days of the receipt of the grievance, the college Student Grievance 
Officer will determine whether the issue is grievable under the policies and 
regulations of the District.  If the issue is grievable, a hearing will be scheduled. 
3.3.1 Determination as to the sufficiency of grounds for a hearing on a 
grievance shall be based on the following: 
(a) Has the student attempted to resolve the grievance under the 
informal grievance process in Section 2.0 above? 
(b) Have all time lines been met? 
(c)  Does the grievance contain statements which, if true, would 
constitute a grievance under Board Policy P-2412? 
(d)  Does the grievant have standing to assert the grievance by (i) being 
a student at the time of filing the grievance or at the time of the 
alleged act of wrong-doing; or (ii) being an applicant for admission 
to the college? 
3.4 If any of the grounds for grievability stated in Section 3.3.1 above have not been 
satisfied, the college Student Grievance Officer will notify the student in writing 
that the grievance has been rejected and state the specific reason(s) for the 
rejection. 
3.5 If the college Student Grievance Officer determines that all the conditions for 
grievability have been met, the grievance will be referred to the designated 
hearing officer.  At this time the person(s) against whom the grievance is filed 
shall be notified of the status of the grievance, and shall be given a copy of the 
formal grievance. 

STUDENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
Student Grievance 
Procedures 
R-2412 
Student Rights and Responsibilities 3 of 7 
 
3.5.1 The Hearing Officer shall be appointed by the College President.  The 
hearing Officer shall be an administrator who is not from the area from 
which the grievance arose, nor from student services. 
3.6 Within ten (10) days from appointment, the Hearing Officer will schedule a 
hearing on the grievance.  All parties shall be notified by the Hearing Officer of 
the time and day of the hearing.  If the designated time and day are not convenient 
for the parties, a mutually agreeable time may be set.   
3.7 The hearing will be conducted in accordance with the guidelines set forth below:  
3.7.1 All decisions concerning the conduct and procedure of the hearing shall be 
made by the Hearing Officer and shall be final. 
3.7.2 Each party to the grievance may call witnesses and introduce oral 
testimony and documentary evidence relevant to the issue of the grievance 
and both parties shall be permitted to question all witnesses of the other 
side. 
3.7.3 Formal rules of evidence shall not apply.  All relevant evidence may be 
admitted. 
3.7.4 The burden shall be upon the grievant to prove by a preponderance of the 
evidence that the facts alleged are true and that a grievance has been 
established as specified in Section 1.1 above. 
3.7.5 Each party shall be presumed not to be at fault. 
3.7.6 At the hearing, the grievant and any other party involved in the grievance 
may be represented or accompanied by another person.  The name and 
status of such a person must be submitted to the Hearing Officer at least 
two (2) days before the beginning of the hearing.  No party may be 
represented by legal counsel. 
3.7.7 Hearings shall be closed and confidential, unless it is the request of all 
parties that hearings be open to the public. 
3.7.8 In a closed hearing, witnesses shall not be present at the hearing when not 
testifying, unless all parties agree to the contrary. 
3.7.9 One tape recording of the grievance hearing shall be made by the Hearing 
Officer, and shall be the only tape recording. 
3.7.10 The Hearing Officer shall maintain an orderly meeting and permit no 
person to be subjected to abusive treatment.  In this regard, the Hearing 
Officer may eject or exclude any person who refuses to be orderly. 
3.8 The Hearing Officer shall deliver a written decision within ten (10) days of the 
conclusion of the hearing to all parties to the grievance, with copies to the Chief 

STUDENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
Student Grievance 
Procedures 
R-2412 
Student Rights and Responsibilities 4 of 7 
 
Student Services Officer, the College President and the Assistant Chancellor, 
Educational Services. 
3.8.1 The Hearing Officer's decision shall contain a statement of the alleged 
grievance; a discussion of the evidence introduced by each party together 
with the Hearing Officer's determination whether the grievant met his or 
her burden of proof by a preponderance of the evidence; and a 
recommendation as to which, if any, of the requests for relief sought by 
the grievant should be granted. 
3.8.2 The Hearing Officer shall not recommend any relief that violates any 
employee rights as guaranteed by law or collective bargaining agreement. 
3.9 Either party to the grievance may appeal the Hearing Officer's decision to the 
Chief Student Services Officer within five (5) days.  Such appeal shall be 
submitted in writing and shall state specifically the grounds for appeal. 
3.9.1 Grounds for appeal will be limited to: 
3.9.1.1 Decision not supported by the evidence. 
3.9.1.2 Denial of admission of relevant evidence. 
3.9.1.3 Incorrect application/non-application, or interpretation of laws, 
policies, procedures, etc. 
3.9.1.4 Excessive or disproportionate sanctions applied. 
3.9.2 The Chief Student Services Officer shall review the proceedings and take 
one or more of the following actions: 
(a) Affirm the Hearing Officer's decision in whole or in part; 
(b) Reverse the Hearing Officer's decision in whole or in part; 
(c) Affirm or deny in whole or in part the relief recommended by the 
Hearing Officer; or 
(d) Send the grievance back to the Student Grievance Officer for 
further consideration. 
3.9.3 Within ten (10) days after receipt of the appeal documents, the Chief 
Student Services Officer shall inform all parties to the grievance and the 
appropriate personnel in the District Office, in writing, of the decision.  
The decision of the Chief Student Services Officer shall be final. 
3.10 A student grievance involving a District Office staff member must be submitted in 
writing to the Assistant Chancellor, Administration and Operations within ten 
(10) days of the event leading to the grievance.  The Assistant Chancellor, 

STUDENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
Student Grievance 
Procedures 
R-2412 
Student Rights and Responsibilities 5 of 7 
 
Administration and Operations will attempt to resolve the problem by informal 
means following the pattern set forth in Section 2.0 above. 
3.10.1 Upon failure of the informal process to resolve the matter, the Assistant 
Chancellor will determine within five (5) days if the issue is grievable, and 
if so, shall designate a District Hearing Officer who will conduct a hearing 
in accordance with Section 3.7 above. 
3.10.1.1 The decision of the District Hearing Officer shall be consistent 
with the requirement set forth in Section 3.8 above and shall be 
delivered in writing within ten (10) days of the conclusion of 
the hearing to all parties to the grievance with a copy to the 
Assistant Chancellor. 
3.11 Either party may appeal the decision of the District Appeal Officer or the District 
Hearing Officer to the Chancellor, within ten (10) days of the decision on the 
grounds and in the manner set forth in Section 3.9 above.  Failure to file this 
appeal within the ten (10) day period shall constitute a waiver of this appeal and 
acceptance of the District decision. 
3.11.1 The decision of the Chancellor is final. 
4.0 Special Provisions 
4.1 Any time specified in these procedures may be shortened or lengthened by mutual 
agreement of all parties. 
4.2 If, at any step of the formal proceedings, the grievant fails to appear, except in the 
case of emergency,  the grievance will be considered to be in default and a request 
by the opposing party to dismiss the grievance shall be granted. 
4.3 An informal grievance must be initiated on or before the tenth day of instruction 
of a new semester when the grievance involves final grades or circumstances 
surrounding final grades for the preceding semester or summer session. 
4.4 All decisions must be consistent with the law and the employees' contracts with 
the District. 
4.5 No reprisal of any kind shall be taken against any person who participates in the 
grievance procedure. 
4.6 In situations when the student's presence in class is a factor which could affect the 
student's grade or graduation, the instructor must allow the student to continue to 
attend or provide the student the opportunity to continue the work of the class, 
unless the student's presence in class adversely affects health and safety. 
5.0 Review of Procedures 
5.1 A student grievance committee consisting of the three (3) faculty senate  presidents, 

STUDENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
Student Grievance 
Procedures 
R-2412 
Student Rights and Responsibilities 6 of 7 
 
or designees; the District Academic Senate President or designee; three (3) student 
association presidents, or designees; the College Chief Student Services Officer, the 
Assistant Chancellor, Educational Services and the District General Counsel will 
convene, as needed, to review this policy.  Each member of the Committee shall have 
one (1) equal vote. 
5.2 It will be the responsibility of the District Academic Senate President to call the 
meeting of the review committee. 
6.0 Summary of Time Lines for Student Grievance 
6.1 For purposes of quick review, the following summary of time lines is provided. 
INFORMAL GRIEVANCE RESOLUTION 
(Mandatory) 
Level 1 
Time Line With Whom Purpose 
 
Within ten (10) days of 
alleged act. 
Student shall meet with staff 
member involved 
-- or -- 
With staff member's 
immediate supervisor. 
To attempt informal resolution 
 -- and -- 
If no resolution reached within 
ten (10) days, student may 
proceed to formal grievance 
process. 
 
 
FORMAL GRIEVANCE PROCESS 
(Grievability) 
Level 2 
Time Line With Whom Purpose 
 
Within five (5) days of 
completion of informal 
process 
 -- and -- 
not later than twenty-five 
(25) days from date of 
alleged wrongful act. 
Formal grievance form 
(completed) to be filed with 
Student Grievance Officer. 
To determine if problem is 
grievable. 
 -- and -- 
If grievable, hearing will be 
scheduled. 
 
 

STUDENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
Student Grievance 
Procedures 
R-2412 
Student Rights and Responsibilities 7 of 7 
 
FORMAL GRIEVANCE PROCESS 
(Hearing) 
Level 3 
Time Line 
 
With Whom Purpose 
 
Decision 
 
Within ten (10) days 
of appointment, 
hearing will be 
scheduled. 
 
All parties and 
Hearing Officer. 
 
To determine the merit 
of the grievance. 
 
Within ten (10) days 
of completion of 
hearing. 
 
 
FORMAL GRIEVANCE PROCESS 
(Appeal) 
Level 4 
 
Time Line 
 
With Whom 
 
Process 
 
Decision 
 
Within five (5) days 
of Hearing Officer's 
decision. 
 
Chief Student Services 
Officer. 
 
Written appeal, stating 
specific grounds for 
appeal (see Section 
3.9.1). Review of 
record only. 
 
Within ten (10) days 
of receipt of appeal 
documents. Decision 
is final. 
 
 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 3/12/80 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 11/19/80; 2/10/82; 6/5/85; 6/2/92; 3/6/96 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed:  
Board Policy: P-2412