ADMISSIONS AND RECORDS 
 
Nonresident and 
International Student Fees   
R-2251 
Student Fees 1 of 6 
 
1.0 International Student Application Fee 
1.1 The amount of the International Student Application Fee is established at fifty 
dollars ($50.00) per application as published in the appropriate Los Rios 
Community College District College catalog, class schedules, or other College 
publications. 
1.2 The International Student Application Fee is due and payable with submission of 
the application for admission or readmission. Upon issuance of the immigration 
document I-20 form, if the international student is unable to attend the academic 
semester for which the student applied, the fifty dollar ($50.00) International 
Student Application Fee can be applied toward the following semester. 
International student applications will not be processed if applicable International 
Student Application Fees have not been paid. 
1.3 Statutory Exemptions to the International Student Application Fee 
1.3.1 Any international student who can demonstrate economic hardship is 
exempt from the International Student Application Fee. When claiming 
economic hardship, the student must demonstrate receipt of benefits under 
the Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) program, the 
Supplemental Income/State Supplementary Program, (SSI/SSP), or a 
general assistance program. 
1.3.2 Any student who can demonstrate economic hardship because the student 
is a victim of persecution or discrimination in the country in which the 
student is a citizen and resident is exempt from the International Student 
Application Fee. (Ed. Code, § 76142) Students must present verification 
of political asylum status or refugee status as documented by the 
Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) of the U.S. Department of 
Justice. 
2.0 Nonresident Tuition Fee and Student Capital Outlay Fee 
2.1 The Nonresident Tuition Fee which applies to nonresident students and 
international students shall be determined annually in accordance with provisions 
established by State regulations. (Ed. Code, § 76140) The Student Capital Outlay 
Fee which applies to international students who are both citizens and residents of 
a foreign country and nonresident students shall also be determined annually. (Ed. 
Code, § 76141) 
2.2 The Nonresident Tuition Fee and Student Capital Outlay Fee shall be adopted by 
the Los Rios Community College District Board of Trustees prior to February 1 
of each year for the succeeding fiscal year. (Ed. Code, § 76140) The newly 
adopted rate shall begin with the summer session term as long as the term ends in 
the succeeding fiscal year. 
2.3 Notification of Nonresident Tuition Fee changes shall occur during the spring 

ADMISSIONS AND RECORDS 
 
Nonresident and 
International Student Fees   
R-2251 
Student Fees 2 of 6 
 
term and shall be published in the appropriate class schedule or other College 
publications.  
2.4 Revenues from the Student Capital Outlay Fee charged to international students 
and nonresident students shall be expended only for purposes of capital outlay, 
maintenance, and equipment. 
3.0 Statutory Exceptions to Nonresident Tuition Fee 
3.1 State residency determinations for certain students, exceptions to residency 
determinations, and exemptions shall be determined in accordance with the 
Education Code and Title 5. (Ed. Code, §§ 68000-68100, 68122, 68130.5, 76140, 
subd. (a)(4) & (a)(5)) 
4.0 Statutory Exemptions to Student Capital Outlay Fee 
4.1 Any international student who can demonstrate economic hardship is exempt 
from the Student Capital Outlay Fee. When claiming economic hardship, the 
student must demonstrate receipt of benefits under the Aid to Families with 
Dependent Children (AFDC) program, the Supplemental Security Income/State 
Supplementary Program (SSI/SSP), or a general assistance program. 
4.2 Any student who can demonstrate economic hardship because the student is a 
victim of persecution or discrimination in the country in which the student is a 
citizen and resident is exempt from the Student Capital Outlay Fee. (Ed. Code, § 
76141)  Students must present verification of political asylum status or refugee 
status as documented by the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) of the 
U.S. Department of Justice. 
5.0 Payment of Fees 
5.1 Student fees, as applicable, including but not limited to student enrollment, 
Nonresident Tuition and Student Capital Outlay Fees for each semester or 
summer session are calculated based on the published fee schedules and such fees 
are to be paid to the District by the student before completion of registration or 
the student may make installment plan arrangements for certain fees with the 
College admission office. 
5.1.1 Nonresident or international students may elect to pay fees due by cash, 
check, or credit card. An installment payment plan is available to 
nonresident and international students for the Nonresident Tuition and the 
Student Capital Outlay Fee, if applicable. All other fees must be paid 
before completion of registration.  
5.1.2 Students will be assessed a returned check fee of  fifteen dollars ($15.00) 
for each check not accepted by their bank for any reason other than bank 
error (proven by a bank letter). Any check written for payment of fees and 
returned by the bank will constitute nonpayment and may therefore result 

ADMISSIONS AND RECORDS 
 
Nonresident and 
International Student Fees   
R-2251 
Student Fees 3 of 6 
 
in disenrollment without further notice. 
5.1.3 Students may elect to defer payment of the Nonresident Tuition and/or 
Student Capital Outlay Fee due by entering into a contract with the 
College/District to make installment payments for the balance due, as 
described in Section 5.3 below. 
5.2 The College admission and records officer will process tuition installment 
payments under the following conditions: 
5.2.1 The student would not be able to attend if installment payments were not 
approved. 
5.2.2 Because of the student’s financial circumstances, it appears reasonable the 
student will be able to pay the required installments. 
5.3 Installment Payment Plan 
5.3.1 All students using the installment payment plan must pay a non-refundable 
administrative fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00), or five percent (5%) of 
the deferred amount, whichever is the greater. 
5.3.2 Domestic Nonresident (Out-of-State)/International (Foreign) Students 
5.3.2.1 Upon registration, a domestic, nonresident student electing to use 
the installment plan must pay a minimum down payment of three 
hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) or fifty percent (50%) of total 
Nonresident Tuition Fee and Student Capital Outlay Fee, 
whichever is greater. The non-refundable administrative fee and all 
other student fees are due before completion of registration. 
5.3.2.2 Three (3) equal monthly installments will be due and payable on 
September 15, October 15, and November 15 for the fall semester, 
and February 15, March 15, and April 15 for the spring semester.  
However, in no case will the minimum installment payment be less 
than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) or the total deferred 
balance due.  If the installment due day falls on a weekend, the 
installment payment will be due the following Monday. 
5.3.2.3 For summer session, the total deferred balance owed will be due 
and payable on July 15. If the installment due date falls on a 
weekend, the installment payment will be due the following 
Monday. 
5.3.3 Student may withdraw from some or all classes up to the Friday of the 
second week of instruction or by Friday of the first week of instruction for 
short-term courses or summer session. The installment plan will be 
adjusted accordingly; however, the administrative fee is non-refundable. 

ADMISSIONS AND RECORDS 
 
Nonresident and 
International Student Fees   
R-2251 
Student Fees 4 of 6 
 
5.3.4 A ten dollar ($10.00) administrative late payment fee will be added to 
each installment paid after the applicable due date. 
5.3.5 Failure to make timely installment payments may result in the 
College/District disenrolling the student from any or all classes, and 
demand for the immediate payment in full of the outstanding balance. A 
student disenrolled for nonpayment is not entitled to refund of any paid 
fees, and remains responsible for payment of the unpaid deferred balance 
plus late charges.  A student will not be reinstated until the overdue 
balance is paid in full. 
5.3.6 A student with an overdue outstanding balance at any College of the 
District cannot enroll into subsequent courses or semesters until the 
overdue balance and late charges are paid in full. 
6.0 Refunds 
6.1 If a student is erroneously determined to be a nonresident or international student 
and Nonresident Tuition and/or Student Capital Outlay Fees are paid, such fees 
are refundable in full, provided acceptable proof of State residence is presented 
for the period for which the fees were paid. A refund will be made by the District 
Business Office upon authorization by the College President, or designee. 
6.2 If a student withdraws from enrollment or reduces his/her program, applicable 
Nonresident Tuition and/or Student Capital Outlay Fees may be refunded in 
accordance with the schedule indicated in Section 6.6 below. A refund of fees 
must be applied for in writing by the student and will be made by the District 
Business Office upon authorization of the College President, or designee. 
6.3 No refunds shall be made for reductions in programs or withdrawal unless the 
withdrawal petition or drop request is submitted by the Friday of the second week 
of instruction for full semester classes or by Friday of the first week of instruction 
for sessions shorter than the full semester (short-term courses) or for summer 
session.  
6.4 Requests for refunds must be filed by the last day of instruction in the semester or 
summer session for which the fee was paid.  
6.5 When refunds are granted, the schedule indicated below will be utilized to 
determine the amount of refund. In no case shall the refund exceed the amount of 
fees paid. 
6.6 Refund Schedule: 
Time of Withdrawal or Reduction Amount of Refund 
(A) Fall and Spring Semester:  

ADMISSIONS AND RECORDS 
 
Nonresident and 
International Student Fees   
R-2251 
Student Fees 5 of 6 
 
Time of Withdrawal or Reduction Amount of Refund 
From the beginning of the semester to the Friday 
of the second (2 nd) week of instruction of the 
semester 
100% 
After the Friday of the second (2nd) week of 
instruction of the semester 
No Refund 
(B) Summer Session and/or Short-Term Courses:  
By Friday of the first (1st) week of instruction 100% 
After Friday of the first (1st) week of instruction No Refund 
7.0 Admission by Error or Falsification 
7.1 A nonresident or international student subject to payment of Nonresident Tuition 
and/or Student Capital Outlay Fees, who has been admitted to a class or classes 
by error without payment of the fee, shall be excluded from such class or classes 
upon notification, pending payment of the fees. For purpose of this rule only, 
notification consists of written advice from the Office of Admissions and Records 
of the College to the student. Such notice should be issued prior to the end of the 
second (2nd) week (tenth (10th) instructional day) of the semester or the end of the 
first (1st) week of summer session. 
7.2 The nonresident or international student who has been admitted to a class or 
classes without payment of fees because of falsification of information submitted 
by or for that student, shall be excluded from such class or classes upon 
notification, pending payment of the fees. For the purpose of this rule only, 
notification consists of written advice from the Office of Admissions and Records 
of the College to the student and such notification may be given at any time. A 
student excluded because of falsification shall not be readmitted during the 
semester or summer session from which the student was excluded, nor shall the 
student be admitted to any following semester or summer session until all 
previously incurred fee obligations are paid. 
8.0 Appeal 
8.1 Any student, following a final decision on residence classification by the College, 
may make a written appeal to the Chancellor within thirty (30) calendar days of 
notification of final decision by the campus regarding classification. (Title 5, 
§ 54060) 
8.2 The Chancellor, on the basis of the student’s records, and information contained 
in the student’s appeal, will make a determination and notify the student by 
United States mail, postage prepaid. 

ADMISSIONS AND RECORDS 
 
Nonresident and 
International Student Fees   
R-2251 
Student Fees 6 of 6 
 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 3/10/65 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 7/11/73; 6/13/79; 11/19/80; 2/10/82; 7/10/84; 4/9/85; 1/6/88; 
3/4/92; 7/21/93; 1/24/96; 9/8/08; 4/27/15; 7/8/15; 10/28/19 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 7/8/15; 10/28/19 
Board Policy: P-2251