GOVERNANCE 
 
Participatory Governance   R-3411 
Participatory Governance 1 of 3 
 
1.0 Chancellor’s Cabinet 
1.1 Purpose: Pursuant to provisions in the collective bargaining agreement with LRCFT, 
the Chancellor’s Cabinet will function as the Los Rios Community College District 
participatory governance group and may take up issues of District-level significance 
which are not reserved by law, contract or agreement for negotiation, or which may 
be the responsibility of other groups. The composition of the Chancellor’s Cabinet is 
defined in the collective bargaining agreement and consists of faculty, classified 
staff, students, and administrators, including the Chancellor. 
1.2 In order to facilitate discussions, the Chancellor’s Cabinet shall operate to assure 
that all affected and appropriate constituencies have input and involvement in the 
resolution of these issues. 
1.2.1 All members of the Chancellor’s Cabinet shall represent the interests of 
their constituencies. These interests could be those of either the 
constituency or the particular College. Members will assume the 
responsibility for considering the District-wide and College-specific 
implications of issues. 
1.2.2 The Chancellor’s Cabinet may form task groups. Such task groups shall 
report to the Chancellor’s Cabinet.  
1.3 Areas of responsibility: 
1.3.1 Review and provide recommendations to the Chancellor on proposed 
changes to District Policies and Administrative Regulations. 
1.3.2 Serve as the steering committee for District strategic planning processes. 
1.3.3 Review and provide recommendations to the Chancellor on District-
related accreditation processes and documents. 
1.3.4 Discuss issues of District-level significance and interest to members. 
1.4 Chancellor’s Cabinet composition: The Chancellor’s Cabinet consist of the 
following: 
1.4.1 Chair: District Chancellor. 
1.4.2 Faculty: Ten (10) faculty members consisting of the District Academic 
Senate President, one (1) Academic Senate President from each College, 
the LRCFT union President, and one (1) LRCFT College President from 
each College. 
1.4.3 Administration: Five (5) administrative representatives consisting of the 
College Presidents and one (1) at-large administrator selected by LRMA. 
1.4.4 Classified: Seven (7) classified staff representatives consisting of the 
respective presidents of Los Rios Classified Employees Association 
(LRCEA), the Los Rios Supervisors Association (LRSA), and the Los 

GOVERNANCE 
 
Participatory Governance   R-3411 
Participatory Governance 2 of 3 
 
Rios Chapter of the Service Employees International Union (SEIU), the 
Classified Senates for each College. 
1.4.5 Student: Four (4) student representatives consisting of one (1) selected by 
each College’s student body association. 
1.5 The appropriate appointer shall determine the length of term of his/her appointees. 
All appointments for the succeeding year shall be identified no later than June 30. 
2.0 Meetings 
2.1 During the regular academic year, meetings shall be scheduled monthly on the 
fourth Monday of the month. Alternate and/or additional meetings will be held the 
second Monday of the month, if necessary. 
2.2 In the event that the Chancellor is unable to attend, the Chancellor may designate a 
representative and a substitute Chair. 
2.3 A quorum shall be defined as: members in attendance. 
2.4 Chancellor’s Cabinet meetings shall be informal, and recommendations shall be 
reached by consensus. If consensus cannot be reached, no recommendation shall be 
forwarded. 
2.5 Any member of the Chancellor’s Cabinet may propose agenda items. These items 
shall be presented to the Chair who will determine whether the item is within the 
stated purpose of the Chancellor’s Cabinet. The Chancellor’s Cabinet shall be 
informed of all proposed agenda items and their subsequent disposition by the 
Chancellor. Items not included on the agenda can be raised as information items 
during the meeting. 
2.6 The Chancellor’s Cabinet may act on any agenda item. Such actions include 
recommending approval or disapproval, referring the item to a task force for further 
study, or deferring discussion of the item. 
3.0 Communication 
3.1 The Chancellor’s Cabinet operates on a representative basis. Therefore, Chancellor’s 
Cabinet members are responsible for communicating with their constituencies. 
3.2 Agendas and Minutes 
3.2.1 The Chancellor’s Cabinet members shall receive all agendas and 
supporting documents in the week prior to a scheduled meeting. 
3.2.2 The Chancellor’s Cabinet members shall receive draft minutes of previous 
meetings in the week prior to the next scheduled meeting.  

GOVERNANCE 
 
Participatory Governance   R-3411 
Participatory Governance 3 of 3 
 
4.0 Chancellor’s Cabinet Committees 
4.1 The District Accreditation Coordinating Committee (DACC) shall coordinate 
District-level accreditation activities including maintaining a District Function Map, 
facilitating collection of District-level evidence for College Self-Evaluation and 
other required accreditation processes, and coordinating presentations to the Los 
Rios Community College District Board of Trustees to request Board approval for 
submission of required accreditation documents to the Accrediting Commission for 
Community and Junior Colleges, Western Association of Schools and Colleges. 
4.1.1 DACC membership shall be appointed by the appropriate District and 
College constituency groups and will comprise the following: 
4.1.1.1 The Vice Chancellor of Education and Technology serves as 
committee co-chair; 
4.1.1.2 One (1) District Academic Senate representative appointed by the 
District Academic Senate President and serves as committee co-
chair; 
4.1.1.3 The College Accreditation Liaison Officers; 
4.1.1.4 The College Accreditation Chairs. 
4.1.2 Communication: DACC operates on a representative basis and the 
representatives are responsible for reporting to their constituencies. The 
Vice Chancellor of Education and Technology shall provide regular 
DACC updates to the Chancellor’s Cabinet. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 8/1/90 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 5/10/04; 4/28/14; 7/8/15 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 7/8/15 
Board Policy: P-3411