PROGRAM EXTENSIONS 
 
Work Experience   R-7421 
Ancillary Programs 1 of 7 
 
1.0 Work Experience Education Definition (Title 5, § 55250) 
1.1 Work Experience Education (WEE) is a Los Rios Community College District-
initiated and District controlled program of education consisting of the following: 
1.1.1 The purpose of Work Experience Education is to provide students with an 
integrated instructional program that provides opportunities to connect 
academic curricula to applied experiential learning in the workplace. Work 
Experience Education should be substantive in nature, linked in a way 
relevant to a student’s educational pathway, and contribute to 
demonstrable learning outcomes that have value towards a degree or 
certificate. 
Work Experience Education within the California Community Colleges 
involves student employment and/or internships selected, approved, and 
supervised by districts to provide meaningful work experience related to 
the course of study, or specific career pathway training, combined with 
instruction in critical workplace skills. Work Experience Education may 
include paid or unpaid employment, full or part-time employment, and 
may be structured as separate credit or noncredit classes, or integrated as a 
component of a course. 
It should be integrated as part of a student’s educational pathway allowing 
students to achieve both educational and occupational goals. It may also 
assist the student in developing career awareness, learning industry 
culture, competencies and norms, and developing professional networks in 
their desired field to support career mobility. Work Experience Education 
should provide economically disadvantaged students with opportunities to 
earn a wage while completing program requirements and earning 
academic credit. 
1.1.2 Apprenticeship Work Experience Education is supervised employment 
extending classroom-based occupational learning with on-the-job learning 
connected to an approved apprenticeship program. 
2.0 Student Qualifications (Title 5, § 55254) 
2.1 In order to participate in WEE students shall meet the following criteria: 
2.1.1 Have a current worksite during the course of their enrollment in one of the 
following positions. 
2.1.1.1 Part-time or full-time paid employment. 
2.1.1.2 Paid or unpaid internship or volunteer positions. 
2.1.1.3 Be a registered apprentice as defined by Labor Code Section 3077 
and enrolled in related or supplementary courses required of the 

PROGRAM EXTENSIONS 
 
Work Experience   R-7421 
Ancillary Programs 2 of 7 
 
apprentice programs. Community college districts may grant units 
of credit for WEE consistent with provisions of this regulation. 
2.1.1.4 Self-employed. To be considered self-employed, a student must 
hold a current business license and have a professional evaluator in 
the same field to provide constructive feedback on their growth. 
The relationship of the evaluator and student must be professional 
and not personal in nature. The college may also impose additional 
criteria. 
2.1.2 Be enrolled in a WEE course. 
2.2 High school students are not eligible to participate in WEE courses. 
2.3 Remote employment is allowed. Out-of-state employers must be licensed to 
conduct business in California. 
3.0 Records (Title 5, § 55252 & 55254) 
3.1 The Colleges shall retain as student records the following documents for each 
Work Experience Education student for a minimum of five years: 
3.1.1 Learning agreements establishing hours that will be worked. 
3.1.2 Statements verifying hours worked. 
3.1.3 Records of faculty consultation with the employer. 
3.1.4 Records of faculty consultation with the student. 
3.1.5 Evaluation of student achievement of learning objectives by instructor. 
3.1.6 Records of the final grade. 
3.2 3.1.7 Unpaid Internship Agreement and Waiver Assumption of RiskThe District 
shall enter a Work Experience Education employer agreement with each 
participating employer prior to any student beginning their Work Experience 
Education. Such agreements shall document the following: 
3.2.1 The respective supervisory obligations of the district and the employer 
with respect to the WEE students’ work site. 
3.2.2 The employer's acknowledgement and agreement to provide workers' 
compensation coverage for students in paid Work Experience Education 
positions. 
3.2.3 The employer's acknowledgement of the purpose of the WEE program and 
the district's WEE policies and procedures and agreement to adhere to 
both. 

PROGRAM EXTENSIONS 
 
Work Experience   R-7421 
Ancillary Programs 3 of 7 
 
3.2.4 The employer's intent to provide continuous work experience during the 
enrollment term for WEE students and validate all student hours worked. 
3.2.5 The employer's agreement to provide adequate facilities, equipment, and 
materials at the WEE work site to achieve the learning objectives. 
3.2.6 The employer’s agreement to adhere to all applicable rules, regulations, 
and standards adopted by the California Apprenticeship Council, for Work 
Experience Education involving apprenticeable occupations with Division 
3, Chapter 4 of the Labor Code (sections 3070 through 3100). 
3.2.7 The employer's agreement that all WEE employment shall be free from 
discrimination and harassment based on race, sex, disability and other 
forms of bias, and that the employer will afford all persons in the 
workplace, regardless of disability, gender, gender identity, gender 
expression, nationality, race or ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, or 
any other basis that is contained in the prohibition of hate crimes set forth 
in Penal Code, section 422, subdivision (a), equal rights and opportunities. 
3.2.8 The employer’s agreement to comply with all applicable state and federal 
employment laws. 
3.3 The appropriate college representative or instructor, the employer, and the student 
shall sign a learning agreement. The learning agreement shall document the 
following: 
3.3.1 The WEE student's individual educational objectives aligned with the 
course outline of record. 
3.3.2 The hours of work and a clear explanation of the student's WEE job 
duties. 
3.3.3 The responsible supervisor(s) at the college and the employment site. 
3.3.4 A commitment from the employer and the college that students will 
receive regular and substantive feedback, and written evaluations of their 
progress toward meeting their learning objectives 
3.4 WEE students who are self-employed must identify an individual to serve as their 
WEE advisor, subject to approval of the district. This individual shall assist the 
student to identify learning objectives, and sign the learning agreement in place of 
the employer. 
3.5 Digital signatures are allowed on all required WEE documents and agreements. 
4.0 Work Experience Credit (Title 5, § 55002.5 & 55253) 
4.1 One student contact hour is counted for each unit of work experience credit in 
which a student is enrolled during any census period. The maximum contact hours 

PROGRAM EXTENSIONS 
 
Work Experience   R-7421 
Ancillary Programs 4 of 7 
 
counted for a student shall not exceed the maximum number of WEE units for 
which the student may be granted credit as described in section 55253. 
4.1.1 Student contact hours may include hours inside or outside the classroom. 
4.2 The learning experience and the identified on-the-job learning objectives shall be 
sufficient to support the units to be awarded.  
4.3 The following formula will be used to determine the number of units to be 
awarded:  
4.3.1 Each 54 hours of work equals one semester credit.  
4.3.2 Each 27 hours of work equals .5 semester credit.  
4.4 Other conditions required for awarding credit:  
4.4.1 Work Experience Education hours must be completed during the term in 
which they are enrolled.  
4.4.2 Students must submit required program forms and assignments during the 
term in which they are enrolled.  
5.4.3 Units may be awarded in 0.5 unit increments.  
4.5 For the satisfactory completion of all types of WEE, students may earn units as 
defined by curriculum, but not to extend 14 units per enrollment period or 20 
units overall. Students enrolled in apprenticeship programs are exempt from the 
unit cap. 
4.6 Students will adhere to the requirements defined by the College Work Experience 
Education program. 
5.0 Responsibilities of the College, Faculty Employer, Student and 
District (Title 5, § 55250 & 55251) 
5.1 Responsibilities of the College are to: 
5.1.1 Identify appropriate public or private employers to partner with in 
providing Work Experience Education opportunities to students. 
5.1.2 Provide sufficient administrative support, including classified and 
instructional personnel, for initiating and maintaining relationships with 
Work Experience Education employers, coordinating the program, 
supervising students, and providing other required district services. 
5.1.3 Ensures that the Work Experience Education Program conducts its Annual 
Unit Plan and Program Review during the appropriate cycle and makes 
determinations on needs, implement and evaluate implementations to 
support the underrepresented and socially disadvantaged students to 

PROGRAM EXTENSIONS 
 
Work Experience   R-7421 
Ancillary Programs 5 of 7 
 
ensure equitable access to Work Experience Education opportunities for 
underrepresented and socioeconomically disadvantaged students. 
5.1.5 5.1.4 Provide WEE faculty time to maintain, coordinate and promote the 
WEE program including developing contacts with business industry and 
governmental agencies for potential Work Experience Education 
opportunities for students. Provide WEE reasonable assigned time in terms 
of weekly student contact hours to consult with students, consult in person 
with employers at least once each semester, and teach the class 
(orientation). 
5.1.6 Provide financial support to the WEE program including supplies and 
equipment; necessary travel expenses for worksite visits required for 
coordination; and professional development. 
5.2 Responsibilities of the faculty are: 
5.2.1 Attend Faculty Coordinator and/or Instructor will: 
5.2.1.1 Provide guidance services for students during enrollment in Work 
Experience Education. 
5.2.1.2 Analyze disaggregated WEE enrollment, persistence, and course 
success data related to certificate, degree and transfer attainment 
(disaggregations including, but not limited to, student 
race/ethnicity, income status, gender, and accessibility status for 
credit & noncredit Work Experience Education). 
5.2.1.3 Conduct the WEE Annual Unit Plan and Program Review and will 
make determinations on needs, implement and evaluate 
implementations to support the underrepresented and socially 
disadvantaged students to ensure equitable access to Work 
Experience Education opportunities for underrepresented and 
socioeconomically disadvantaged students. 
5.2.1.4 Identify appropriate public or private employers to partner with in 
providing Work Experience Education opportunities to students. 
5.2.1.5 Develop Curriculum related to WEE. 
5.2.1.6 Support WEE Instructional Faculty in the implementation of the 
Employer Agreement (Title 5 § 55252. Work Experience 
Education Documentation). 
5.2.1.7 Work as needed with classified support personnel to maintain 
relationships with Work Experience Education employers. 
5.2.1.8 Work as needed with classified support personnel to retain student 
records for each Work Experience Education students. 

PROGRAM EXTENSIONS 
 
Work Experience   R-7421 
Ancillary Programs 6 of 7 
 
5.2.2 Instructional Faculty will:. 
5.2.2.1 Serve as a resource for students particularly regarding enrollment 
in Work Experience Education. 
5.2.2.2 Assess student progress in Work Experience Education through 
written, measurable learning objectives and outcomes. 
5.2.2.3 Provide opportunities for students to discuss their educational 
growth at regular intervals within each term. 
5.2.2.4 Assign grades or other evaluative symbols to mark student 
achievement in Work Experience Education courses and award 
units of credit, when applicable. 
5.2.2.5 Submit all required records to the WEE Program for each student 
including the Employer Agreement, learning agreements 
establishing hours that will be worked, timesheet verifying hours 
worked, records of consultation with the employer, records of 
student consultation, evaluation of student achievement of learning 
objectives, and records of the final grade. 
5.3 Once enrolled in a Work Experience Education course, the student’s 
responsibilities are: 
5.3.1 Attend Work Experience class. 
5.3.2 Notify the CWEE Instructor of any changes of job, internship, or 
volunteer position, supervisor, and/or work hours.  . 
5.3.3 Return completed and signed LRCCD waiver form and required 
documents to the WEE Instructor including an employer agreement, 
application form, learning objective agreement form, performance 
evaluation forms, timesheet, and when applicable an unpaid internship 
agreement form. 
5.3.4 Complete and sign both the employer agreement form and the LRCCD 
Waiver/Assumption of Risk form at the beginning of the enrollment term 
and prior to the start of the student’s work.  
5.3.5 Complete and sign, if applicable, the Self Employment form designating 
and identifying a qualified supervisor/mentor for the self-employed 
student.  
5.3.6 Report hours worked. 
5.3.7 Consult the WEE Instructor and/or Coordinator concerning job, internship, 
or volunteer-related problems. 

PROGRAM EXTENSIONS 
 
Work Experience   R-7421 
Ancillary Programs 7 of 7 
 
5.3.8 Complete, sign and date the LRCCD Unpaid Internship Agreement form 
and submit it to the WEE Instructor prior to the start of an unpaid WEE 
internship, if applicable. 
5.4 Once a student is enrolled in a Work Experience Education course and before 
counting hours and having LRCCD Worker’s Compensation, the responsibilities of 
student’s employer and the worksite are to:  
5.4.1 Enter into a Work Experience Education Employer Agreement with the 
respective college prior to any student beginning their Work Experience 
Education. 
5.4.2 Have periodic and as needed consultation with faculty. 
 
5.5 Responsibilities of the District are to: 
5.5.1 Provide Workers' Compensation insurance for students employed in 
unpaid Work Experience Education. 
5.5.2 Develop and maintain the Employer Agreement and Unpaid Internship 
Agreement. 
5.5.3 Provide apprenticeship work experience courses when entering into 
contracts with Joint Apprenticeship Training Committee (JATC). The Los 
Rios District may delegate WEE coordination/supervision activities to the 
JATC per Title 5 of the California Administrative Code. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 9/4/74 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 1/28/81; 4/21/82; 12/8/82; 7/12/99; 9/24/12; 4/22/19; 4/28/25 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 4/7/16; 4/22/19; 4/28/25 
Board Policy: P-7421