SEPARATION 
 
Discipline/Dismissal/Nonrenewal R-9413 
Separation  1 of 2 
 
1.0 Recommendation for Discipline/Dismissal 
1.1 A recommendation to suspend, dismiss or otherwise discipline a management 
employee of the Los Rios Community College District shall be made by the 
Director, Human Resources, in consultation with the manager’s supervisor to the 
Associate Vice Chancellor, Human Resources who shall make a recommendation 
based on the request to the Chancellor. 
2.0 Meeting with Chancellor 
2.1 The Chancellor shall attempt to meet with the employee to discuss the 
disciplinary action. 
2.1.1 At the meeting, the Chancellor and employee will discuss the charges and 
attempt to reach a resolution. The Chancellor may wish to schedule an 
additional meeting(s). 
2.1.2 If no resolution is attained, the Chancellor will make a recommendation to 
the Los Rios Community College District Board of Trustees on the 
proposed disciplinary action. 
3.0 Notification of Discipline/Dismissal 
3.1 The Chancellor will prepare a written notice informing the employee of the 
recommendation. The written notice must include: 
3.1.1 A description of the discipline or dismissal action imposed and the 
effective date. 
3.1.2 A statement of the specific acts or omissions upon which the action is 
based, and if it is claimed that an employee has violated a District Policy 
or Administrative Regulation, a copy of the District Policy or 
Administrative Regulation shall be provided.  
3.1.3 A statement of the employee’s right to make a statement to the Board of 
Trustees on such charges and the time within which such request must be 
submitted. 
3.1.4 A statement that the employee may represent himself/herself or be 
represented by an attorney or other person of the employee’s own 
choosing. 
4.0 Administrative Leave 
4.1 The Chancellor may place a manager on administrative leave with pay pending 
Board of Trustees action on the recommendation of discipline. The period of 
administrative leave shall be thirty (30) days or less. It may be extended by the 

SEPARATION 
 
Discipline/Dismissal/Nonrenewal R-9413 
Separation  2 of 2 
 
Chancellor if necessary to permit the completion of the procedure outlined in this 
regulation. 
5.0  Board of Trustees Action 
5.1 The Board of Trustees’ consideration shall be conducted in closed session unless 
the employee requests a public hearing. The employee shall be permitted to make 
a statement to the Board of Trustees. 
5.2 The Board of Trustees shall issue a decision within seven (7) days. The decision 
of the Board of Trustees shall be final. 
6.0 Nonrenewal of Management Contract 
6.1 The Board of Trustees may choose not to renew a management contract, whether 
express or implied, by complying with the procedures set forth in the Education 
Code or in a written management contract, if applicable. (Ed. Code, § 72411) 
6.2 A manager with tenure as a regular academic employee whose contract has not 
been renewed may be entitled to retreat to an academic position as provided in the 
Education Code. There shall be no retreat rights for other managers except as 
specifically provided in policy or state law. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 2/21/78 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 2/18/81; 6/16/82; 10/23/90; 10/26/98; 12/12/16 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 12/12/16 
Board Policy: P-9413