STUDENT DEVELOPMENT 
 
Student Body Associations   R-2311 
Student Organizations and Activities 1 of 6 
 
1.0 Student Body Associations 
1.1 Each College student body association of the Los Rios Community College 
District authorized by the Los Rios Community College Board of Trustees shall 
establish a constitution and each authorized component of that student body 
association shall establish bylaws that are consistent with District Policies and 
Administrative Regulations. These constitutions and bylaws are subject to the 
approval of the appropriate College officials and the Board of Trustees. 
1.2 Each student elected as an officer in the student body association and each of its 
components shall, at a minimum, meet and maintain both of the requirements of 
Education Code, section 76061, as follows: 
1.2.1 Shall be enrolled in the College at the time of election and throughout the 
fall and spring semesters of his or her term, with a minimum of five (5) 
semester units. 
1.2.2 Shall meet and maintain the minimum standards of scholarship prescribed 
for community college students by the District (good standing with a 
minimum 2.0 GPA). 
2.0 Constitutions 
2.1 Each student body association and each of its components at each College shall be 
governed by a constitution that shall provide the basic structure of the association.  
2.2 A model student body association constitution will be developed as an attachment  
to this regulation.  
2.3 The constitution for each student body association and each of its components 
shall be ratified at a student election. 
3.0 By-laws 
3.1 Each Student Senate, Clubs and Events Board, and Joint Budget Committee of the 
student body association shall adopt bylaws that detail the procedures that must be 
followed to conduct business in an orderly manner.  
3.2 By-laws may not contradict or negate any part of the constitution, District Policies 
or Administrative Regulations.  
3.3 By-laws should address the place and time of meetings, the protocol for meetings, 
including, but not limited to: the manner in which meetings are to be run; motions 
made, seconded, and voted upon; procedures for recall of elected or appointed 
members and the filling of any vacancies; and decorum.  

STUDENT DEVELOPMENT 
 
Student Body Associations   R-2311 
Student Organizations and Activities 2 of 6 
 
4.0 Elections 
4.1 The elections for the student body association and each of its components shall 
take place under the direction and supervision of the Vice President of Student 
Services or designee. The elections shall be held in April. The election shall be 
held on the same days at each College and on the same dates and times as the 
Student Trustee elections. The April election dates shall be scheduled within 
thirty (30) days after the election of the previous year. Special elections may be 
held only for (a) changes in the constitution; (b) the creation of a new elective 
office in the student body association; or (c) after an election, all elective offices 
of the Student Senate or Clubs and Events Board of the student body association 
remain vacant.  
4.2 Only students who are enrolled in the Colleges of the District may vote in student 
body association elections. A student may vote in the student body association 
election at each College they are enrolled in at the time of the election.  
4.3 Polling shall be conducted online as established by the Vice President of Student 
Services, or designee, at each College, in his or her discretion. Adequate 
information shall be provided to students about when polls will open and close, 
how to access the online election, the number of officers to be elected, and that 
students are not required to vote for every member of a slate of candidates. 
Computers shall be made available at each College and Center to allow students 
to vote. 
4.4 Where the use of student records (as defined in LRCCD R-2265) is necessary to 
verify voter eligibility, college administrators, faculty, or staff shall participate in 
the verification process to protect the confidentiality of those student records.  
4.5 The Vice President of Student Services, or designee, shall ensure that candidate 
biographies and statements are made public at each of the Colleges in the form of 
a pre-election voter guide, and this information shall be posted prior to the 
election and shall be distributed widely at least one (1) week prior to the election.  
4.6 There shall be at least one (1) public candidate forum held at each College at 
which all candidates are invited to participate.  
4.7 Candidates will be listed on the ballot in an order determined by a random 
selection process. 
5.0 Campaigning 
5.1 Campaigning is defined as any activity which promotes the candidacy of one or 
more individuals for an office in the student body association and each of its 
components. This includes, but is not necessarily limited to: scheduling 
appearances; lobbying a voter; and posting, publication, or distribution of 
advertisements, correspondence, or literature. Campaigning does not include 
nomination petition signing. Campaign expenditures include all funds and/or 

STUDENT DEVELOPMENT 
 
Student Body Associations   R-2311 
Student Organizations and Activities 3 of 6 
 
donations used in campaigning and include money used to purchase goods or 
services related to campaigning, and the fair market value of goods or services 
given or donated to a candidate. Campaign expenditures do not include the 
provision of goods or services by a College or a student body association to all 
candidates on an equal basis. 
5.2 Posting signs for place-holding before the start of campaigning is not permitted. 
5.3 Campaigning is permitted in the open areas of the College campus in compliance 
with District Policy and Administrative Regulation 1411. Campaigning is 
permitted in classrooms only with permission of the faculty member. Campaign 
messages should be focused on subjects within the purview of the student body 
association. Colleges are encouraged to provide candidates with access to 
computers, equipment, and office supplies to produce campaign materials as 
space and budgets allow.  
5.4 Posters may be placed on the College campuses only on appropriate areas subject 
to approval by appropriate College officials in compliance with District Policy 
and Administrative Regulation 1313.   
5.5 A slate is the listing of multiple names by candidates on a single piece of 
campaign literature, campaign publication or other document whether paper or 
electronic. Each candidate or slate is limited to expending the following 
maximum amount of money for campaign expenditures in any single election: 
 Maximum expenditure 
for each individual 
where only individuals 
are candidates for a 
particular office 
Maximum expenditure 
for each slate in a 
campaign where only 
slates of two or more 
persons are candidates 
for a particular office 
Maximum expenditure 
for each individual and 
each slate where a slate 
of two or more persons 
and individual(s) are 
candidates for a 
particular office  
ARC $240 $480 $240 
CRC $80 $160 $80 
FLC $80 $160 $80 
SCC $160 $320 $160 
These amounts are based upon $80 per 10,000 unduplicated students enrolled in the 
College. 
5.6 All campaign contributions to student body association candidates must be from 
individuals. Individual candidates and slates may not solicit campaign 
contributions in excess of the maximum amounts listed in section 5.5 above. 
Money from corporations and political action committees is prohibited. 
5.7 Each candidate or slate must document campaign expenditures to the office of 
student life and file an expenditure form, complete with receipts, by 3 p.m., two 
(2) business days prior to the first day of the election. Receipts can be requested at 
any time. Expenditure forms must be filed even if there are no expenditures.  
Supplemental final reports are due by 3:00 p.m. the day after the election closes. 
Each candidate or slate is subject to disqualification, as determined by the student 

STUDENT DEVELOPMENT 
 
Student Body Associations   R-2311 
Student Organizations and Activities 4 of 6 
 
life coordinator, if expenditure reports are filed late or if total expenditures exceed 
the limits of section 5.5 above. All campaign materials must be accounted for on 
the expenditure form, including but not limited to: posting and publishing 
materials; advertisements; holding charity events such as concerts, rallies, or other 
social gatherings; and distributing literature. 
5.8 Elective offices for the student body association and each of its components shall 
be nonpartisan. Candidates may not align to combine campaign expenditures 
except as allowed by this section and subject to the campaign expenditure 
limitations in section 5.5, above. A candidate for President and a candidate for 
Vice President may align to form a slate, but shall not form a slate with any 
candidate for any other office. A group of up to a maximum of four (4) 
individuals may form a slate to campaign for the positions of Senators, but shall 
not form a slate with any other candidates for any other office. Any effort to 
violate this section shall be cause to disqualify each candidate participating in the 
slate. An individual College student body association may decide against allowing 
slates in their elections. 
5.9 No College- or District-sponsored organization shall be allowed to finance the 
campaign of any candidate for a student body association office, nor may any 
individual finance the campaign of a candidate in the name of a District- or 
College-sponsored organization. 
5.10 The District, Colleges, and the student body association may utilize incentives to 
encourage students to vote in elections, but not for or against any particular 
candidate. As part of campaigning, candidates and individuals who support or 
oppose any candidates may not use food, money, gifts, or alcohol. 
6.0 Election Challenges 
6.1 Any challenges to the validity of the student body association election shall be 
submitted to the Vice President of Student Services’ office in writing within five 
(5) calendar days after the date of the conclusion of the election. The President, or 
designee, shall respond to those challenges in writing. The President's 
determination of those challenges shall be final.  
6.2 In the event the President, or designee, concludes there was a material irregularity 
in the election, the President, or designee may make any determination that 
fairness requires, including, but not limited to, invalidating the election.  
6.3 Election irregularities include, but are not limited to, the following: 
6.3.1 The polling place workers were guilty of misconduct; 
6.3.2 A candidate was not at the time of election eligible to hold office;  
6.3.3 A candidate gave or offered a bribe or reward or conspired with someone 
else to do so, for the purpose of procuring the election;  

STUDENT DEVELOPMENT 
 
Student Body Associations   R-2311 
Student Organizations and Activities 5 of 6 
 
6.3.4 Irregularities in the polling hours or eligibility determinations;  
6.3.5 Illegal votes were cast; 
6.3.6 The students conducting the election made errors sufficient to change the 
result of the election; 
6.3.7 There was an error in vote counting or summaries of ballot counts; or 
6.3.8 Any other issues that affected the fundamental fairness of the election. 
7.0 Vacancies 
7.1 Vacancies shall be determined and filled in the following manner: 
7.1.1 The existence of a vacancy based on unexcused absences, unexcused 
tardies, no election, resignation or recall, shall be determined by a two-
thirds (2/3) vote of the remaining members of the body in which the 
vacancy occurs. 
7.1.2  The existence of a vacancy based upon illegal conduct shall be 
determined by the student life coordinator with other College officials, 
including but not limited to the College disciplinary officer.   
7.1.3 The existence of a vacancy based upon ineligibility shall be determined 
solely by the student life coordinator, or designee. 
7.1.4 In consultation with the student life coordinator, the body in which a 
vacancy occurs shall fill vacant positions by appointment by the body or 
alternatively by a special election. Special elections may only be held with 
the concurrence of the student life coordinator. 
7.1.5 Where the Student Senate of the student body association is the entity 
charged with determining whether a vacancy exists or with filling the 
vacancy, but there are no Student Senate officers or members, the Club 
and Events Board shall be charged with the vacancy-related functions of 
the Student Senate of the student body association.  
7.1.6 Where the Club and Events Board of the student body association is the 
entity charged with determining whether a vacancy exists or with filling 
the vacancy, but there are no Club and Events Board officers or members, 
the Student Senate of the student body association shall be charged with 
the vacancy-related functions of the Club and Events Board of the student 
body association.  
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 3/5/91 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 11/17/10; 10/24/11; 4/27/15 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 4/27/15 

STUDENT DEVELOPMENT 
 
Student Body Associations   R-2311 
Student Organizations and Activities 6 of 6 
 
LRCCD 
Board Policy: P-2311