CLASSIFIED PERSONNEL 
 
Definitions R-6011 
Definitions 1 of 6 
 
1.0 Administrative Officer  
1.1 The following employees are designated as Administrative Officer:  
1.1.1 At the Colleges, Vice President of Administration; 
1.1.2 At Central Maintenance, Director of Plant Facility; 
1.1.3 At District Office, Chancellor; Vice Chancellors; Director, Personnel 
Services. 
2.0 Adverse or Disparate Impact  
2.1 A statistical measure (such as those outlined in the Equal Employment 
Opportunity Commission's "Uniform Guidelines on Employee Selection 
Procedures") is applied to the effects of a selection procedure and demonstrates a 
disproportionate negative impact on any group defined in terms of ethnicity, 
gender, or disability. A disparity identified in a given selection process will not be 
considered to constitute adverse impact if: 
2.1.1 The numbers involved are too small to permit a meaningful comparison; 
2.1.2 The disparity is attributable to the fact that affirmative action recruitment 
resulted in large numbers of persons from historically underrepresented 
groups in the applicant pool; or 
2.1.3 The disparity occurs because the District is taking corrective action 
pursuant to 5 California Code of Regulations (hereinafter Title 5) §53006 
to overcome the significant underrepresentation of another group. 
3.0 Affirmative Action Employment Programs 
3.1 Programs utilizing all the various methods by which equal employment 
opportunity is ensured and expected representation is to be achieved for qualified 
members of historically underrepresented groups. Such methods include, but are 
not limited to, using nondiscriminatory employment practices, actively recruiting, 
monitoring and taking other steps to ensure equal employment opportunities, 
promoting diversity in the work force, and taking corrective action consistent with 
the requirements of Title 5 §53006. 
4.0 Applicant 
4.1 A person who has made a formal request (application) for employment. 
5.0 Business Necessity 
5.1 Circumstances which justify an exception to affirmative action requirements of 
Title 5 §53021 because compliance would result in substantial additional cost to 
the District or pose a significant threat to human life or safety. Business necessity 

CLASSIFIED PERSONNEL 
 
Definitions R-6011 
Definitions 2 of 6 
 
requires greater financial cost than does mere business convenience. Business 
necessity does not exist where there is an alternative that will serve business 
needs equally well. 
6.0 Candidate 
6.1 An applicant who meets the qualifications for an open position. 
7.0 Classified Service 
7.1 The classified service shall consist of employees employed in positions not 
requiring certification except as provided in Section 19.0 below. (Education Code 
§ 88004) 
8.0 Conditional Employee 
8.1 A permanent employee who is reassigned to a new position through promotion, 
transfer or voluntary demotion. 
9.0 Demotion  
9.1 A transfer from a position in one class to a position in another class having a 
lower salary range. 
10.0 District Location  
10.1 For purposes of administrative transfer, locations within the District are as 
follows: American River College, Cosumnes River College, Sacramento City 
College, and District Office. Each location includes its satellites and outreach 
centers.  
11.0 Diversity 
11.1 A condition the District must strive to achieve to ensure the District's work force 
includes men and women, persons with disabilities, and individuals from all 
ethnic groups in numbers adequate to provide an inclusive educational and 
employment environment which fosters cooperation, acceptance, democracy and 
the free exchange of ideas. Diversity should exist at all levels and in all job 
categories listed in Title 5 §53004(a). Although there is no universal or specific 
measure for determining when diversity has been achieved, the demographics of 
the adult population of the state and of the community served by the District 
should both be considered. 
12.0 Equal Employment Opportunity 
12.1 The effort to ensure that all qualified individuals have a full and fair opportunity 
to compete for hiring and promotion and to enjoy the benefits of employment 
with the District. 

CLASSIFIED PERSONNEL 
 
Definitions R-6011 
Definitions 3 of 6 
 
13.0 Expected Representation 
13.1 The percentage of persons from an historically underrepresented group in the 
applicable work force is substantially the same as the percentage that members of 
that group would be expected to represent given the number of persons from that 
group in the pool of persons who are determined by the Chancellor to be available 
and qualified to perform the work in question. 
14.0 Faculty and Staff Diversity Plan 
14.1 A written document in which the District's work force is analyzed and specific 
result-oriented plans and procedures are set forth for ensuring equal employment 
opportunity, promoting diversity, and achieving expected representation of 
qualified members of historically underrepresented groups. 
15.0 Goals 
15.1 A statement that the District will strive to attract and hire additional qualified 
members of an historically underrepresented group in order to achieve the level of 
expected representation for that group by a target date established by taking into 
account the expected turnover in the work force and the availability of persons 
from that group who are qualified to perform a particular job. Goals are not 
"quotas" or "rigid proportions. 
16.0 Historically Underrepresented Groups 
16.1 Ethnic minorities, women and disabled persons. 
17.0 In-house or Promotional Only Hiring 
17.1 Circumstance(s) in which only existing District employees are allowed to apply 
for a position. 
18.0 Minority Categories 
18.1 The minority categories recognized by the State Chancellor include: 
18.1.1 American Indian or Alaskan Native: All persons having origins in any of 
the original peoples of North America and who maintain cultural 
identification through tribal affiliation or community recognition. 
18.1.2 Asian or Pacific Islanders: All persons having origins in any of the 
original peoples of the Far East, Southeast Asia, the Pacific Islands, or the 
Indian subcontinent. This area includes for example, China, Japan, Korea 
and Samoa. 
18.1.3 Black/African-Americans: All persons having origins in any of the Black 
racial groups of Africa. 

CLASSIFIED PERSONNEL 
 
Definitions R-6011 
Definitions 4 of 6 
 
18.1.4 Hispanic (Chicano/Latino): All persons of Mexican, Puerto Rican, Cuban, 
Central or South American, or other Spanish culture or origin, regardless 
of race. 
19.0 Non-classified Employee 
19.1 A non-certificated employee who fits into one of the following categories: 
19.1.1 Long-Term Temporary Employee - A temporary employee appointed to 
fill the position of a regular classified employee or to perform a non-
continuing service for the District for a period of six (6) mouths or more, 
but less than seventy-five percent (75%) of a fiscal year. 
19.1.2 Short-Term Temporary Employee - A temporary employee assigned to fill 
the position of a regular classified employee or to perform a non-
continuing or seasonal service to the District usually for a period of less 
than six (6) months, but in all cases for less than seventy-five percent 
(75%) of a fiscal year. 
19.1.3 On-Call Substitute Employee - A temporary employee assigned to fill the 
position of a regular classified employee on a day-today basis as needed. 
19.1.4 Student Employee - A Los Rios student employed part-time on the student 
help, work study or special programs. 
19.1.5 Special Services Employee - A temporary employee hired pursuant to a 
written employment services agreement setting forth the terms and 
conditions of employment. 
20.0 Permanent Employee 
20.1 A permanent employee is a classified employee who has passed the required one-
year probationary period. (For employees on a work year of less than twelve (12) 
months, one (1) year means the number of required months of service for the 
position held by the employee which fall between the date of employment and the 
same day one year later.)  
20.1.1 Full-Time Permanent Employee - A permanent employee appointed on a 
continuing basis to an authorized position which requires service of eight 
(8) hours a day or forty (40) hours a week for a designated work year. 
20.1.2 Part-Time Permanent Employee - A permanent employee appointed on a 
continuing basis to an authorized position which requires service of less 
than eight (8) hours a day or less than forty (40) hours a week for a 
designated work year. 
21.0 Person with a Disability 
21.1 Any person who: 

CLASSIFIED PERSONNEL 
 
Definitions R-6011 
Definitions 5 of 6 
 
21.1.1 Has a physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one or 
more of such person's major life activities; 
21.1.2 Has a record of such an impairment; or 
21.1.3 Is regarded as having such an impairment. 
21.2 A person with a disability is "substantially limited" if he or she is likely to 
experience difficulty in securing, retaining or advancing in employment because 
of such an impairment. 
22.0 Probationary Employee 
22.1 A new employee in the first year of service in a regular position. 
23.0 Promotion 
23.1 A reassignment from a position in one class to an open position in another class 
having a higher salary range. 
24.0 Reasonable Accommodation 
24.1 The efforts made on the part of the employer to remove artificial or real barriers 
which prevent or limit employment and upward mobility of persons with 
disabilities. 
25.0 Regular Employee 
25.1 A classified employee who has conditional, probationary or permanent status. 
26.0 Screening or Selection Procedure 
26.1 Any measure, combination of measures, or procedure used as a basis for any 
employment decision. Selection procedures include the full range of assessment 
techniques, including but not limited to, traditional paper and pencil tests, 
performance tests, and physical, educational, and work experience requirements, 
interviews, and review of application forms. 
27.0 Significantly Underrepresented Group 
27.1 Any historically underrepresented group for which: 
27.1.1 The percentage of persons from that group employed by the District in any 
job category listed in Title 5 §53004(a) is below seventy percent (70%) of 
the percentage that members of that group would be expected to represent 
given the pool of persons who are available and qualified to perform the 
work in question; or 

CLASSIFIED PERSONNEL 
 
Definitions R-6011 
Definitions 6 of 6 
 
27.1.2 The number of persons from that group employed by the District in any 
job category listed in Title 5 §53004(a) is lower than the number that 
would be expected given the number of persons from that group in the 
pool of persons available and qualified to perform the work in question, 
and that discrepancy is found to be statistically significant using the chi 
square test or any other statistical test the Chancellor determines to be 
appropriate for this purpose; or 
27.1.3 Where small numbers are involved, both Sections 2.11.1 and 2.11.2 above 
are satisfied. The Chancellor shall issue guidelines to assist the District 
with the proper application of these rules in determining significant 
underrepresentation. 
28.0 Target Date 
28.1 A point in time by which the District plans to meet an established goal and 
achieve expected representation for a particular historically underrepresented 
group in a particular job category. 
29.0 Timetable 
29.1 A set of specific annual hiring objectives that will lead to meeting a goal by a 
projected target date. 
30.0 Transfer 
30.1 A transfer is the assignment of an employee to another position within the same 
classification or to a lower classification at the same or a different work location 
within the District. A change in work shift is not a transfer. 
30.1.1 Administrative Transfer: a transfer initiated by the District. An 
administrative transfer cannot be to a lower classification. 
30.1.2 Voluntary Transfer: a transfer initiated by the employee. 
30.1.3 Reassignment: a transfer to another position or operating unit within the 
work location. A change in work shift is not a reassignment  
(Formerly R-6114 and R-6117) 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 4/28/97  
Adm. Regulation Revised:  
Adm. Regulation Reviewed:  
Board Policy: P-6011