EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Recruitment, Selection and 
Appointment: Full-Time 
Faculty 
R-5121 
Recruitment and Appointment 1 of 6 
 
1.0 Job Announcements 
1.1 Job announcements shall clearly state the job specification and shall set forth 
those skills that are necessary for job performance, including the required training 
and experience related to those skills. Only bona fide occupational qualifications 
shall be included in job announcements. 
2.0 Building an Applicant Pool 
2.1 Open positions shall be advertised broadly in order to insure that interested 
members underrepresented groups are included in the qualified applicant pool for 
the position.  
 In addition to sending position announcements routinely to: 
• Los Rios Community College District Board of Trustees; 
• College Faculty (for faculty openings); 
• Exclusive Representative of the bargaining unit with the opening; 
• College and university placement departments throughout the state; 
• Local School Districts; 
• Ethnic Minority Organizations; 
• Women’s Organizations; 
• Employment development agencies and similar employment agencies; 
• Agencies for persons with disabilities; 
and posting the opening on the Los Rios Community College District’s website 
(also publicized widely), it may be necessary to locate qualified individuals from 
protected groups in underrepresented areas by: 
• Advertising in journals and newspapers with protected group readership as 
well as in newspapers having wide general circulation; 
• Contact members of underrepresented groups working in or attending 
predominantly minority colleges; 
• Contacting women working in or attending predominantly women’s 
colleges; 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Recruitment, Selection and 
Appointment: Full-Time 
Faculty 
R-5121 
Recruitment and Appointment 2 of 6 
 
• Notifying individuals with applications in the appropriate subject matter 
applicant file to discover their interest in applying for the specific position 
opening; 
• Contacting members of underrepresented groups seeking work in business 
and industry; 
• Using professional registries and data banks, specifically those with 
listings of protected group members; 
• Consulting with local underrepresented groups’ organizations and 
agencies regarding recruiting efforts. 
2.2 The District shall be identified as an Equal Opportunity Employer. 
2.3 Full-time faculty positions will typically be advertised for at least forty (40) 
calendar days, with a minimum of thirty (30) calendar days. 
2.4 All applicants shall be given an opportunity to identify the underrepresented 
group to which they belong for the purpose of monitoring employment practices. 
(Title 5, § 53023) This confidential information will remain in the Human 
Resources Office for research purposes. 
3.0 Certifying the Composition of the Qualified Applicant Pool (Title 5, 
§ 53023) 
3.1 The Human Resources Office will review applications before they are forwarded 
to the College where the position opening exists and certify that qualified 
applicants from underrepresented groups are among those included in the pool. If 
extensive recruitment efforts have produced no such applicants for a specific 
position, the Human Resources Office shall so state. 
3.2 The Human Resources Office will maintain applicant flow data showing the total 
number of qualified applicants for each open position as well as the number of 
applicants from underrepresented group applicants. 
4.0 Application Review Process 
4.1 The Human Resources Office will review the applications and supporting 
documents of all applicants. Materials of those applicants who meet the minimum 
qualifications of the position will be forwarded to the College President who is 
responsible for implementing the process. 
4.2 Applicants and employees with felony convictions and applicants or employees 
that are disqualified for service under Education Code, sections 87010, 87011, or 
87405, shall be individually evaluated based on the requirements of the position 
following factors: 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Recruitment, Selection and 
Appointment: Full-Time 
Faculty 
R-5121 
Recruitment and Appointment 3 of 6 
 
4.2.1 Nature and Gravity of the Offense(s).  The Human Resources Office shall 
evaluate felony conviction(s) to determine the nature and severity of the 
offense(s) or conduct.  This evaluation may take into account the harm 
caused by the crime, the elements of the crime, and the severity of the 
crime.  A more severe crime would tend towards disqualifying the 
applicant.   
4.2.2 Time That Has Passed Since the Offense(s) or Conviction(s).  The Human 
Resources Office shall evaluate the amount of time that has passed since 
the most recent offense or conviction and any prior offense(s). A single 
offense or a last offense committed more than ten (10) years prior to the 
application date suggests an applicant will not recidivate. Subsequent 
employment history and efforts at rehabilitation is relevant to this inquiry. 
Crimes committed more recently would tend towards disqualifying the 
applicant. 
4.2.3  Nature of the Job Held or Sought. In light of the first two factors, the 
Director of Human Resources shall examine the nature of the duties and 
essential functions of the job held or sought to determine if excluding the 
applicant is consistent with business necessity. Consideration may be 
given to the location of the job and the persons the applicant will come 
into contact with in the job. For example, convictions of property, theft, or 
larceny crimes tend toward disqualifying applicants for positions of trust 
or positions that control money or property. Convictions for violent 
felonies would tend towards disqualifying applicants from positions that 
require contact with students, staff, or the public.  
4.2.4 Applicants with disqualifying convictions shall be notified that they have 
been screened out due to a felony conviction and provided with an 
opportunity to demonstrate that they should not screened out due to the 
applicant’s particular circumstances.  The Human Resources Office shall 
review this information prior to making a final decision. 
5.0 Screening Committee  
5.1 The screening committee is a subset of the interview committee and has a 
minimum composition of: (a) the Equity Officer or representative; (b) one (1) 
administrator; and (c) three (3) faculty members, which includes at least one (1) 
faculty member from the department. Additional members of the interview 
committee may serve on the screening committee if they so choose. 
5.2 Committee Composition 
 The composition of the Screening Committee should reflect the demographics of 
the District’s service area. 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Recruitment, Selection and 
Appointment: Full-Time 
Faculty 
R-5121 
Recruitment and Appointment 4 of 6 
 
5.3 Criteria for College selection of candidates: Prior to reviewing applications, the 
screening committee, with the approval of the appropriate Dean, shall establish 
the basic objective criteria for the selection of candidates. The criteria shall be 
broad enough to include underrepresented applicants. The committee shall be 
informed about the work force composition goals of the operating unit. 
6.0 Interview Committee 
6.1 The interview committee is composed of six (6) to ten (10) persons, selected as 
follows:  
6.1.1 Three (3) to five (5) discipline, related discipline, or outside discipline 
faculty members appointed by the College Academic Senate President 
after consultation with the department chairperson and appropriate 
administrator. Discipline faculty should represent the majority of members 
on the committee.   
6.1.2 The administrator of the department or area (usually the Division/Area 
Dean) appointed by the College President. 
6.1.3 The Equity Representative—one of the 3-5 faculty members--  shall be 
affirmed by the College Equity Officer and appointed by the College 
Academic Senate President after consultation with the department 
chairperson and appropriate administrator from a list of faculty who a) 
have been trained within the last two years in equity and diversity matters, 
and b) are not faculty in the discipline for which the hiring committee is 
convened. 
6.1.4  An administrative representative appointed by the College President. 
6.1.5 A student representative nominated by the College Student Senate 
President in collaboration with the College President will participate 
during the interview process only. 
6.1.6  A classified employee, for positions in which faculty work closely with 
classified staff. The determination of whether it is appropriate for a 
classified employee to sit on the committee shall be made by the College 
President in consultation with the Academic Senate President. The College 
President in collaboration with the classified leadership will select the 
classified employee. 
6.1.7 An outside content expert for positions in which no District faculty 
content experts are available. The determination of whether it is 
appropriate for an outside content expert to sit on the committee shall be 
made by the College President in consultation with the Academic Senate 
President. The College President in collaboration with the Academic 
Senate President will select the outside content expert, preferably a faculty 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Recruitment, Selection and 
Appointment: Full-Time 
Faculty 
R-5121 
Recruitment and Appointment 5 of 6 
 
content expert from another college. If no faculty content experts are 
available, then a content expert from the representative field may be 
appointed. 
6.1.8 Committee Composition 
6.1.8.1 The composition of the committee should reflect the demographics 
of the District’s service area. 
6.1.8.2 Departments that lack sufficient diversity to compose a diverse 
interview committee must use faculty outside the department (or 
college). 
6.1.8.3 The list of committee members shall be submitted to the College 
Equity Officer and/or Human Resources Office to ensure the 
committee is diverse in terms of gender and racial/ethnic diversity. 
6.2 Interviewing procedures: The College interview committee, prior to any 
interviews, shall review standard procedures for interviewing, develop core 
questions to be asked, prepare the rating device, and set the time limit for the 
interviews. 
6.2.1 College interview committees shall be informed by the Vice President or 
designee regarding appropriate questions. Staff members of District 
Human Resources Office will provide any needed assistance. 
6.2.2 At the conclusion of the interviews, each member of the committee will 
complete the rating sheets and assign individual rankings to the applicants. 
The individual rankings will be submitted to the chair of the committee. 
6.2.3 The Equity Officer or representative will check the procedures again to 
insure compliance with all equity requirements. 
6.3 The interview committee chair will rank the applicants in accordance with the 
rankings submitted by the interview committee and report the top three (3) 
candidates (or up to five [5] in case of ties) in alphabetical order to the committee. 
The Vice President and/or President shall join the committee for a discussion of 
strengths and weaknesses of the top candidates. 
6.3.1 Additional interviews of the applicant may be conducted by the College 
President and/or designee. 
6.4 The College President or designee will check references for the recommended 
candidates. 
6.5 When the College President or designee has decided which candidate is to be 
recommended for the position, all necessary paperwork to be completed is 
forwarded to the Director, Human Resources. 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Recruitment, Selection and 
Appointment: Full-Time 
Faculty 
R-5121 
Recruitment and Appointment 6 of 6 
 
6.5.1 Such documents include the recommendation for the employment of 
faculty (P-673); the equity report (P-130); the interview committee and 
recommendation report (P-131); the objective criteria for screening; core 
interview questions; and the individual interview committee members’ 
rating sheets and the final checklist for recommendation appointment.  
7.0 Hiring Procedure 
7.1 The Director, Human Resources will review the procedures for selection of the 
person to be recommended for appointment as submitted by the Colleges. 
7.2 The candidate’s name will be submitted to the Board of Trustees for approval at a 
regular meeting of the Board of Trustees. 
8.0 Criminal Background Check 
8.1 Applicants shall be fingerprinted via Live Scan at the State Department of Justice 
or another qualified law enforcement agency. Employment shall not commence 
until clearance has been approved by Human Resources.  The Human Resources 
Office shall review any new felony convictions that are discovered during this 
process under the process set forth in 4.2, above, and shall also take into account 
whether the failure to disclose the conviction was dishonest.  
8.2 Applicants shall be required to pay the cost of the fingerprinting and processing. 
8.3 When warranted by exigent circumstances as determined by the Associate Vice 
Chancellor, Human Resources, an employee may be permitted to begin work 
prior to clearance having been granted by Human Resources.  
8.4 Police records shall be shown only to those with the legal right to see them. 
9.0 Notification 
9.1 All persons who were interviewed will be notified by the College 
President/designee as to whether they were successful or unsuccessful candidates 
as soon as possible.   
(Formerly R-5114 and R-5115) 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 8/15/79 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 9/3/80; 10/20/82; 2/21/90; 10/9/00; 8/25/03; 2/23/15; 4/25/16; 
9/26/16; 9/23/19 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 9/26/16; 9/23/19 
Board Policy: P-5121