EMPLOYEE DISCIPLINE 
 
Counseling Memo/Letter of 
Reprimand 
R-6913 
Discipline Procedures 1 of 2 
 
1.0 Contents of a Counseling Memo or Letter of Reprimand 
1.1 The counseling memo or letter of reprimand shall clearly define the specific 
violation as outlined in Board Policy (P-6912) and the steps which must be taken 
for improvement. The statement may contain the following information: 
1.1.1 An itemized description giving date, time and nature of violations along 
with applicable rules and regulations. 
1.1.2 The possible consequences of the employee's action, if improvement does 
not occur. 
1.1.3 Steps which must be taken for improvement. 
2.0 Procedure for Counseling Memo 
2.1 Counseling memos may be prepared on standard forms available in the 
administration office at the colleges or in Personnel Services. 
2.2 The Administrative Officer, immediate supervisor and/or manager shall discuss 
with the employee the contents of the counseling memo and shall outline 
requirements for the employee's attaining a reasonable standard of performance. 
2.3 Copies of the counseling memo shall be provided to the employee and the next 
higher level of administrative authority. A counseling memo shall not be placed in 
the employee's personnel file, except as an attachment to a subsequent document. 
2.4 There shall be no right to appeal a counseling memo. 
3.0 Procedure for Letter of Reprimand 
3.1 Letters of reprimand may be prepared on standard forms available in the 
administration office at the colleges or in Personnel Services. If a standard form is 
not used, letters of reprimand shall be marked clearly to identify it as such and 
shall contain the information delineated under Section 1.1. 
3.2 The Administrative Officer, immediate supervisor and/or manager shall discuss 
with the employee the contents of the letter of reprimand and shall outline 
requirements for the employee's attaining a reasonable standard of performance. 
3.3 Copies of the letter of reprimand shall be provided to the employee, the next 
higher level of administrative authority and Personnel Services for inclusion in 
the employee's personnel file. Any written comments regarding the letter of 
reprimand by the employee are to be included in the employee's personnel file. 
3.4 If a permanent employee wishes to appeal a letter of reprimand, the individual 
may do so by delivering to the Administrative Officer within five (5) working 
days of receipt, a written statement describing the objections. The Administrative 

EMPLOYEE DISCIPLINE 
 
Counseling Memo/Letter of 
Reprimand 
R-6913 
Discipline Procedures 2 of 2 
 
Officer shall investigate the action and determine whether the action should be 
sustained, modified or reversed. The decision of the Administrative Officer shall 
be final.  
(Formerly P-6632) 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 12/3/75  
Adm. Regulation Revised: 10/15/80; 10/20/82; 4/28/97 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed:  
Board Policy: P-6913