EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Recruitment, Selection, and 
Appointment: Adjunct 
Faculty 
R-5122 
Recruitment and Appointment 1 of 4 
 
1.0 Recruitment and Application Procedures for Adjunct Temporary 
Assignments 
1.1 The Los Rios Community College District Human Resources Office will 
advertise as needed for part-time academic staff to provide an adequate pool of 
applicants. 
1.1.1 Only those persons having an application on file at the District will be 
considered as applicants. 
1.1.2 Applicants and employees with felony convictions and applicants and 
employees that are disqualified for service under Education Code, sections 
87010, 87011, or 87405 shall be referred to Human Resources and 
individually evaluated based on the requirements of the position following 
factors: 
1.1.2.1 Nature and Gravity of the Offense(s). The Human 
Resources Office shall evaluate felony conviction(s) to 
determine the nature and severity of the offense(s) or 
conduct. This evaluation may take into account the harm 
caused by the crime, the elements of the crime, and the 
severity of the crime.  A more severe crime would tend 
towards disqualifying the applicant.   
1.1.2.2 Time That Has Passed Since the Offense(s) or 
Conviction(s). The Human Resources Office shall evaluate 
the amount of time that has passed since the most recent 
offense or conviction and any prior offense(s). A single 
offense or a last offense committed more than ten (10) 
years prior to the application date suggests an applicant will 
not recidivate. Subsequent employment history and efforts 
at rehabilitation is relevant to this inquiry. Crimes 
committed more recently would tend towards disqualifying 
the applicant. 
1.1.2.3  Nature of the Job Held or Sought. In light of the first two 
factors, the Director of Human Resources shall examine the 
nature of the duties and essential functions of the job held 
or sought to determine if excluding the applicant is 
consistent with business necessity. Consideration may be 
given to the location of the job and the persons the 
applicant will come into contact with in the job. For 
example, convictions of property, theft, or larceny crimes 
tend toward disqualifying applicants for positions of trust 
or positions that control money or property. Convictions for 
violent felonies would tend towards disqualifying 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Recruitment, Selection, and 
Appointment: Adjunct 
Faculty 
R-5122 
Recruitment and Appointment 2 of 4 
 
applicants from positions that require contact with students, 
staff, or the public.  
1.1.2.4 Applicants with disqualifying convictions shall be notified that 
they have been screened out due to a felony conviction and 
provided with an opportunity to demonstrate that they should not 
screened out due to the applicant’s particular circumstances. The 
Human Resources Office shall review this information prior to 
making a final decision. 
2.0 Screening and Interview Procedures for Adjunct Temporary 
Assignments 
2.1 (The equivalency processes as described in section IV.B of the District’s Faculty 
Hiring Manual and Administrative Regulation R-5123 shall be used for all faculty 
hiring, including, but not limited to, adjunct faculty, long-term temporary, and 
emergency hires.) 
2.2 The screening and interview committee shall consist of two (2) to three (3) 
discipline, related discipline, or outside discipline faculty members appointed by 
the College Academic Senate President after consultation with the department 
chairperson and appropriate administrator. Discipline faculty should represent the 
majority of members on the committee. The administrator of the department or 
area (usually the Division/Area Dean) appointed by the appropriate College Vice 
President. The Equity Representative shall be affirmed by the College Equal 
Employment Opportunity (EEO) Officer and appointed by the College Academic 
Senate President after consultation with the department chairperson and 
appropriate administrator from a list of faculty who have been trained within the 
last two years in equity and diversity matters. 
2.3 Screening and interview committees will determine objective criteria for selecting 
candidates and develop standard interview questions. 
2.4 The screening and interview committee will select and interview a sufficient 
number of applicants to allow for fulfillment of goals and to allow subsequent 
employment offers to be made to successful candidates. 
2.5 Following interviews, the Chair of the interview committee will forward the 
rating sheets and other related documents, including the name of the 
recommended candidate through appropriate administrative channels, to the 
District Human Resources Office. The committee will note those candidates 
approved for adjunct assignment as “commendable.” 
2.6 If the department has a vacant position/assignment within twenty (20) working 
days of the beginning of such assignment, and is unable to conduct in a timely 
manner the adjunct hire process described above, the appropriate manager may 
fill that assignment without the benefit of screening and interview committee 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Recruitment, Selection, and 
Appointment: Adjunct 
Faculty 
R-5122 
Recruitment and Appointment 3 of 4 
 
action utilizing applications currently on file in the District Human Resources 
Office. Adjuncts hired under this “emergency hire” process may not be rehired for 
subsequent assignments unless they successfully complete the adjunct 
interview/hire process described above. 
3.0 Criminal Background Check 
3.1 Applicants shall be fingerprinted at the State Department of Justice or another 
qualified law enforcement agency. Employment shall not commence until 
clearance has been approved by Human Resources. The Human Resources Office 
shall review any new felony convictions that are discovered during this process 
under the process set forth in 1.1.2, above, and shall also take into account 
whether the failure to disclose the conviction was dishonest. 
3.2 Applicants shall be required to pay the cost of the fingerprinting and processing. 
3.3 When warranted by exigent circumstances as determined by District Human 
Resources, a temporary employee may be permitted to begin work prior to 
clearance having been granted by Human Resources. 
3.4 Police records shall be shown only to those with the legal right to see them. 
4.0 Hiring Procedures for Returning Adjunct Temporary Employees 
4.1 Temporary employees hired prior to February 4, 1980, and temporary employees 
hired according to procedures 2.1 through 2.4, may be rehired for subsequent 
assignments without screening and interviewing. 
4.2 Employees hired under 2.5 may be rehired for subsequent assignments only after 
screening and interviewing per sections 2.1 through 2.4. 
5.0 Adjunct Faculty Assignments 
5.1 Assignments of adjunct tenured (part-time) employees will be limited to their 
level of tenure, e.g., a person tenured at twenty percent (20%) will be scheduled 
for neither more nor less than the twenty percent (20%) to which the employee is 
entitled. 
5.2 Tenured staff members without full loads will first be given available assignments 
in which they qualify, up to the percentage of their tenure. 
5.3 The District recognizes only those employment rights to adjunct temporary and 
overload pay assignments specified in State law and in the current 
District/LRCFT agreement. 
5.4 Assignments of adjunct temporary employees will not exceed sixty-seven percent 
(67%) of a full-time load.  

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Recruitment, Selection, and 
Appointment: Adjunct 
Faculty 
R-5122 
Recruitment and Appointment 4 of 4 
 
5.5 Continuation of adjunct assignments by temporary employees and overload 
assignments by regular employees, among other factors, will be contingent upon 
performance evaluations that meet or exceed standards. 
 (Formerly R-5119) 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 2/13/80 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 9/3/80; 10/20/82; 10/13/97; 10/9/00; 8/25/03; 2/23/15; 4/25/16; 
9/26/16 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 9/26/16 
Board Policy: P-5122