EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Initial Selection: College President R-9124 
Recruitment and Appointment 1 of 3 
 
1.0 Application Review Process 
1.1 The Human Resources Office will review the applications and supporting 
documents of all applicants for the position of College President of the Los Rios 
Community College District. Materials of those applicants who meet the 
minimum qualifications of the position will be forwarded to the person who is 
responsible for implementing the process. 
2.0 Selection Process for College Presidents 
2.1 The District shall generally utilize an interview panel. When the panel procedure 
is utilized, it may include a screening committee and will include an interview 
committee. Under extraordinary circumstances, e.g., financial exigencies, the 
Chancellor may interview the selected applicants and recommend a candidate to 
the Board of Trustees. 
2.2 The Chancellor may develop an alternative selection process for the position of 
College President. 
2.3 Screening Committee Composition: The screening committee composition shall 
consist of at least the following: 
2.3.1 Chancellor or designated manager. 
2.3.2 A management member who has been appointed as the equity 
representative. 
2.3.3 Two faculty representatives who will be faculty representatives on the 
interview committee, appointed by the Academic Senate President. 
2.4 Interview Committee Composition: The interview panel shall be composed of the 
same persons who served on the screening committee (if utilized). Additional 
representatives will be added so that the resulting interview composition is as 
follows: 
2.4.1 Chancellor or designated manager. 
2.4.2 A management member who has been appointed as the equity 
representative.  
2.4.3 Three faculty members selected by the Academic Senate President. 
2.4.4 A District manager appointed by the Chancellor. 
2.4.5 A member of the classified staff. The classified employee will be selected 
by the Chancellor with recommendation by a recognized classified 
committee where it exists. 
2.4.6 Any other person the Chancellor deems necessary. 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Initial Selection: College President R-9124 
Recruitment and Appointment 2 of 3 
 
2.5 The interview committee membership shall include at least one or more members 
who have received staff diversity/equity training. 
2.6 The chair of the screening and interview committee shall be a management 
employee appointed by the Chancellor. 
2.7 Following the interview, committee members shall rank the interviewed 
applicants independently and without prior discussion. The individual ranking 
shall be given to the interview committee chairperson and equity representative. 
2.8 The committee chairperson and equity representative shall privately summarize 
the rankings and report the names of the top five candidates (in alphabetical 
order) to the committee. 
2.9 The Chancellor shall be invited to join the interview committee for a discussion of 
the strengths and weaknesses of the top five candidates. Following the discussion, 
the committee will recommend no fewer than three of the top five candidates for 
further consideration. 
2.10 The Academic Senate President may review the original committee rankings on a 
confidential basis with the Chancellor. 
2.11 The Chancellor shall interview, check the references and evaluate the final 
candidates. Applicants who are under final consideration may be requested to 
spend some time with appropriate persons in the District Office or at the College. 
2.12 If the Chancellor has concerns about the final candidates, the Chancellor may 
convene a meeting of the committee to determine if there are additional 
candidates that could be considered. If there are none, the position may be 
readvertised and/or a new job description developed. 
2.13 The Chancellor will review all recommendations. If approved, the 
recommendation will be forwarded to the Los Rios Community College District 
Board of Trustees. Following an appointment by the Board of Trustees, Human 
Resources will contact the appointee and notify all unsuccessful applicants. 
3.0 Status of Management Employees 
3.1 If a regular tenured academic employee of the District is assigned to College 
Presidency, that employee retains tenure in the District but does not obtain tenure 
in a management position. 
3.2 If a regular classified employee of the District is assigned to College Presidency, 
that employee does not retain previously earned permanent status in the District. 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Initial Selection: College President R-9124 
Recruitment and Appointment 3 of 3 
 
4.0 Limited Term Appointments / Management 
4.1 The Chancellor may make limited term appointments through the transfer, 
reassignment, or recruitment process for the purpose of coverage during leaves of 
management employees, or for a special project. 
5.0 State Department of Justice Review 
5.1 Applicants shall be fingerprinted via livescan at a qualified law enforcement 
agency.  Employment shall not commence until clearance has been approved by 
Human Resources. 
5.2 Applicants shall be required to pay the cost of the fingerprinting and processing. 
5.3 When warranted by exigent circumstances as determined by the Associate Vice 
Chancellor, Human Resources, an employee may be permitted to begin work 
prior to clearance having been granted by Human Resources.   
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 4/13/16 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 9/23/19 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 9/23/19 
Board Policy: P-9124