EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Initial Selection: Appointment R-9122 
Recruitment and Appointment 1 of 4 
 
1.0 Application Review Process 
1.1 The Human Resources Office will review the applications and supporting 
documents of all applicants. Materials of those applicants who meet the minimum 
qualifications of the position will be forwarded to the Chancellor/College 
President, as applicable, who is responsible for implementing the process. 
2.0 Selection Process for Managers 
2.1 The Los Rios Community College District shall generally utilize an interview 
panel. When the panel procedure is utilized, it may include a screening committee 
and will include an interview committee. If a screening committee is not used, the 
Associate Vice Chancellor, Human Resources, shall conduct the initial screening. 
Under extraordinary circumstances, e.g., financial exigencies, the Chancellor may 
interview the selected applicants and recommend a candidate to the Board of 
Trustees. 
2.2 The Chancellor may develop an alternative selection process for District Officer 
positions. 
2.3 Screening Committee Composition: The screening committee composition shall 
consist of at least the following: 
2.3.1 Chancellor or designated manager (for District position); President or 
designated manager (for college position). 
2.3.2 The immediate supervisor of the position to be filled or a management 
designee. 
2.3.3 A management member who has been appointed as the equity 
representative. 
2.3.4 For educational management positions, the Academic Senate President 
will appoint two faculty representatives who will be faculty 
representatives on the interview committee. 
2.4 Interview Committee Composition: The interview panel shall be composed of the 
same persons who served on the screening committee (if utilized). Additional 
representatives will be added so that the resulting interview composition is as 
follows: 
2.4.1 Chancellor or designated manager (for District position); President or 
designated manager (for college position). 
2.4.2 The immediate supervisor of the position to be filled or the supervisor's 
management designee. 
2.4.3 A management member who has been appointed as the equity 
representative.  

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Initial Selection: Appointment R-9122 
Recruitment and Appointment 2 of 4 
 
2.4.4 For educational management positions, faculty members selected by the 
Academic Senate President: 
2.4.4.1 When hiring at the dean level, a total of three or four faculty 
members shall be appointed by the Academic Senate President, 
depending on the number of administrative members of the 
committee. 
2.4.4.2 When hiring other educational managers, three faculty members 
shall be appointed. 
2.4.5 For college positions, a District manager appointed by the Chancellor; for 
District positions, a College President or management designee shall be 
included. 
2.4.5.1 When hiring at the dean level or below, the appointment of a 
manager is optional, at the discretion of the Chancellor or 
President. 
2.4.6 A member of the classified staff. If a classified employee was selected 
under Section 2.4.7 below, this requirement will have been satisfied. The 
classified employee will be selected by the College President (or the 
Chancellor for District positions) with recommendation by a recognized 
classified committee where it exists. 
2.4.7 When hiring a classified manager, a classified employee or faculty 
member with expertise in the area may be selected by the Chancellor 
(District position) or President (College position). An outside consultant 
may also be utilized. 
2.4.8 Any other person the Chancellor or College President deems necessary. 
2.5 The interview committee membership shall include at least one or more members 
who have received staff diversity/equity training. 
2.6 The chair of the screening and interview committee shall be a management 
employee appointed by the Chancellor (District position) or President (college 
position). 
2.7 Following the interview, committee members shall rank the interviewed 
applicants independently and without prior discussion. The individual ranking 
shall be given to the interview committee chairperson and equity representative. 
2.8 The committee chairperson and equity representative shall privately summarize 
the rankings and report the names of the top five candidates (in alphabetical 
order) to the committee. 
2.9 The Chancellor, or President, and/or appropriate District or College Manager shall 
be invited to join the interview committee for a discussion of the strengths and 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Initial Selection: Appointment R-9122 
Recruitment and Appointment 3 of 4 
 
weaknesses of the top five candidates. Following the discussion, the committee 
will recommend no fewer than three of the top five candidates for further 
consideration. 
2.10 The Academic Senate President may review the original committee rankings on a 
confidential basis with the President. 
2.11 The Chancellor or President shall interview, check the references and evaluate the 
final candidates. Applicants who are under final consideration may be requested 
to spend some time with appropriate persons in the District Office or at the 
College. 
2.12 If the Chancellor or President has concerns about the final candidates, the 
Chancellor may convene a meeting of the committee to determine if there are 
additional candidates that could be considered. If there are none, the position may 
be re-advertised and/or a new job description developed. 
2.13 The Chancellor will review all recommendations for management positions. If 
approved, the recommendation will be forwarded to the Board of Trustees. 
Following an appointment by the Board of Trustees, Human Resources will 
contract the appointee and notify all unsuccessful applicants. 
3.0 Confidential Employee Selection 
3.1 The selection of applicants for an open confidential position shall follow the 
process for classified employees. 
4.0 Status of Management Employees 
4.1 If a regular tenured academic employee of the District is assigned to a 
management position, that employee retains tenure in the District but does not 
obtain tenure in a management position. 
4.2 If a regular classified employee of the District is assigned to a management 
position, that employee does not retain previously earned permanent status in the 
District. 
5.0 Limited Term Appointments / Management 
5.1 The Chancellor may make limited term appointments through the transfer, 
reassignment, or recruitment process for the purpose of coverage during leaves of 
management employees, or for a special project. 
6.0 State Department of Justice Review 
6.1 Applicants shall be fingerprinted via Live Scan at a qualified law enforcement 
agency.  Employment shall not commence until clearance has been approved by 
Human Resources. 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Initial Selection: Appointment R-9122 
Recruitment and Appointment 4 of 4 
 
6.2 Applicants shall be required to pay the cost of the fingerprinting and processing. 
6.3 When warranted by exigent circumstances as determined by the Associate Vice 
Chancellor, Human Resources, an employee may be permitted to begin work 
prior to clearance having been granted by Human Resources.   
(Cross Reference P-6115)(Formerly P-9116 & R-9117) 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 2/21/78 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 8/15/79; 2/18/81; 6/16/82; 9/25/90; 6/2/92; 5/10/94; 10/26/98; 
8/25/03; 10/22/12; 9/26/16/ 9/11/17 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 9/11/17 
Board Policy: P-9122