RELATIONS BETWEEN DISTRICT/COLLEGE 
PERSONNEL AND THE PUBLIC 
 
Solicitation, Advertising and 
Business Activities   
 
R-1313 
Relations With Public 1 of 2 
 
1.0 Authorization to Conduct Business Activities on District Properties 
1.1 No authorization is required to conduct Los Rios Community College District 
business at any location in the District. 
1.2 On-Campus non-District business activities such as soliciting private business and 
private advertising must be authorized in advance by the College President. 
1.3 Non-District business activities to be conducted on District properties other than on 
a campus must be authorized by the Chancellor. 
2.0 Voluntary Payroll Deductions  
2.1 Voluntary payroll deductions are authorized for the following civic causes which 
qualify for such authorization under the Government code. (Gov. Code, § 1157.2) 
Currently, the District has chosen two: 
2.1.1 The United Way, 
2.1.2 Combined Health Agencies (CHA). 
2.2 The Chancellor, in consultation with a District advisory committee as described 
herein, will review and make final approval or disapproval of requests by additional 
civic organizations seeking inclusion in the annual fundraising drive and voluntary 
payroll deduction plan. 
2.2.1 Major consideration regarding the approval of new organizations for 
participation in the voluntary payroll deduction plan will be given to: 
2.2.1.1 The ability of the Business Office to assume the extra workload 
required for processing payroll deductions; and  
2.2.1.2 The extent to which the organization serves a broad spectrum of 
the community throughout the District service area. 
3.0 Authorization to Conduct Fundraising Activities for Civic Causes 
3.1 On-Campus fundraising activities for civic causes that do not require payroll 
deductions must be authorized in advance by the College President. 
3.2 All other fundraising activities conducted on District properties for civic causes 
must be approved by the Chancellor in consultation with a District advisory 
committee. 
3.2.1 The District advisory committee will meet as needed and shall consist of 
one classified and one academic staff member from each College. 
Classified members will be appointed by the Vice Presidents of 
Administration at the Colleges and academic staff members will be 
appointed by the College faculty senates. In addition, the Chancellor will 

RELATIONS BETWEEN DISTRICT/COLLEGE 
PERSONNEL AND THE PUBLIC 
 
Solicitation, Advertising and 
Business Activities   
 
R-1313 
Relations With Public 2 of 2 
 
appoint one member from the District’s Business Office and one other 
staff member to serve on the committee.  
3.2.2 May 1 of each year shall be the deadline for civic organizations to submit 
requests for inclusion in the fall fundraising drive. 
3.2.3 The selection of civic organizations to be included in the fall fundraising 
drive should be based on the following criteria: 
3.2.3.1 Organizations shall be non-partisan and non-political in nature. 
3.2.3.2 Organizations shall have a proven history of providing benefit to a 
large segment of the community. 
3.2.3.3 Organizations shall have a favorable ratio between administrative 
costs and dollars spent on services to the community. 
3.2.3.4 Organizations shall be those which by their nature are most likely 
to be supported by District employees. 
3.2.4 A minimum of thirty (30) payroll deduction requests is required to 
establish a payroll deduction plan for a civic organization. Payroll 
deduction requests will remain in effect unless discontinued by the 
employee. 
4.0 Authorization to Distribute and/or Post Notices, Bills and Other 
Publications 
4.1 Authorization to distribute and/or post notices, bills and other publications on a 
campus must be obtained in advance from the College President. 
4.2 Authorization for conducting such activities on District properties must be obtained 
in advance from the Chancellor. 
4.3 Distribution of such documents may be restricted with respect to time, manner and 
distribution points, but in no case will such restriction violate provisions of the 
Constitution or other law. 
4.4 Any material posted shall be removed within a time frame established by the 
President or the Chancellor. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 12/4/74 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 11/5/80; 5/20/81; 4/19/89; 1/16/90; 12/6/95; 9/26/16 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 9/26/16 
Board Policy: P-1313