EXPENDITURES 
  
Consulting, Personal Services, and 
Independent Contractors 
R-8335 
Business Services 1 of 4 
 
1.0 Levels of Authorization for Consultants and Personal Services 
1.1 All Service Agreements for consulting services for Los Rios Community College 
District or its Colleges’ services require authorization of signatories as listed in R-
8315. 
1.2 Consultant Agreements shall comply with standard bidding processes and 
requirements (Pub. Contract Code, § 20651) and be approved by the Los Rios 
Community College District Board of Trustees, as required. 
1.2.1 The standard District requisition process shall be used to request and 
approve Consultant Agreements. 
1.3 Professional services (i.e., architects, engineers, environmental consultants, etc.) 
as defined in Government Code, sections 4525 and 4526 are not required to go to 
bid. The District, however, may solicit bids, as determined by the Vice 
Chancellor, Finance and Administration, or designee. 
1.4 Consultant Agreements that are less than the limits in Public Contract Code, 
section 20651 shall follow the same approval process as Purchase Orders. 
2.0 Levels of Compensation 
2.1 Compensation for consulting services should generally be competitive with the 
current market condition. 
3.0 Compliance with the Internal Revenue Code 
3.1 The Internal Revenue Code provides guidance in determining whether an 
individual is an employee or an independent contractor. The District shall comply 
with the Internal Revenue Code in determining which classification is 
appropriate. 
3.2 In general, the determination as to whether an individual is an independent 
contractor or an employee shall not apply to corporations. In general, corporations 
may be treated as independent contractors without regard to this determination. 
4.0 Independent Contractor Checklist 
4.1 The District’s form, Independent Contractor Checklist, shall be used as a tool to 
help originating departments determine whether an individual should be classified 
as an independent contractor or an employee. 
4.2 The checklist shall reflect the tests and objectives set forth in guidance from the 
Internal Revenue Service. 
4.3 The checklist shall be signed by the originator/requisitioner and by the 
Administrative Officer. 

EXPENDITURES 
  
Consulting, Personal Services, and 
Independent Contractors 
R-8335 
Business Services 2 of 4 
 
4.4 The checklist is an important document as audit evidence and shall be completed 
with due diligence. 
5.0 Service Agreement 
5.1 The District’s Service Agreement (or Consultant Agreement) shall define the 
services and terms in detail and shall be signed by the independent contractor. A 
valid contract does not exist until a Purchase Order has been signed by the 
Director, General Services. No commitments shall be made, nor shall work be 
commenced prior to the issuance of a Purchase Order. 
6.0 Responsibilities of Originating Departments 
6.1 Originating Departments shall be responsible for completing the Independent 
Contractor Checklist, obtaining and submitting additional information as may be 
required, and completing a Service Agreement (or Consultant Agreement),  
Requisition, and Conflict of Interest Form. 
6.2 If the Originating Department wishes to enter into supplemental contract language 
beyond that included in District prescribed forms, such supplemental language 
shall be approved by District General Counsel prior to contracting. Changes to 
contractual language require review by District General Counsel and should be 
coordinated with the college Vice President of Administration. Such proposed 
legal language shall be accompanied by a District form “Agreement/Contract 
Approval and Routing Sheet.” 
6.3 The Originating Department shall submit all of the items in Section 6.1 to the 
Vice President of Administration for approval. 
6.4 The Originating Department may not make any commitments or allow the 
individual to begin work until all processing has been completed and a Purchase 
Order has been issued by the District Purchasing Department. 
7.0 Responsibilities of the Vice President of Administration 
7.1 The Vice President of Administration shall review all appropriate documentation 
and either approve the transaction or return it to the Originating Department. 
When completing the review, the Vice President should consider whether the 
individual should more appropriately be classified as an employee. 
7.2 College-approved transactions requiring action outlined in Section 6.2 should be 
submitted to District Risk Management. All other College-approved transactions 
should be submitted to the District Purchasing Department, along with all 
documentation. 

EXPENDITURES 
  
Consulting, Personal Services, and 
Independent Contractors 
R-8335 
Business Services 3 of 4 
 
8.0 Responsibilities of the District Purchasing Department 
8.1 The District Purchasing Department shall receive all transactions and perform all 
normal purchasing activities, including the preparation of a Purchase Order. 
8.2 If the transaction includes supplemental contract language, in addition to that in 
District-prescribed forms, the Purchasing Department shall forward the 
transaction as required by the District form “Agreement/Contract Approval and 
Routing Sheet.” 
8.3 The Purchasing Department shall retain all necessary documentation of 
independent contractor status for all such vendors. Such documentation shall 
include the Checklist, supplemental information, supplemental contract language, 
Requisition, Service Agreement (or Consultant Agreement), Purchase Order, 
Conflict of Interest Form, and any other information deemed necessary. 
9.0 Responsibilities of District Business Services and General Counsel 
9.1 District Business Services is responsible for establishing processes to ensure that 
independent contractors are appropriately classified. All Service Agreements, 
Checklists, and related forms shall be developed in conjunction with College 
personnel. 
9.2 District Business Services shall monitor all classifications to ensure that the 
appropriate classification has been determined. 
9.3 In cases where it is not clear as to whether an individual should be classified as an 
employee or as an independent contractor, General Counsel shall make the final 
determination. 
9.4 General Counsel shall determine whether modifications to the Service Agreement 
(or Consultant Agreement) or supplemental contract language are acceptable. 
10.0 Individuals not Deemed to be Independent Contractors 
10.1 Individuals who do not meet the criteria as an independent contractor must be 
classified as employees for income tax withholding purposes. Such employees 
may be classified in the following two ways: 
10.1.1 Classified or certificated employees: Such individuals will generally be 
classified as temporary employees, and shall receive those benefits 
normally accorded to temporary employees, and shall be subject to all 
laws, policies, regulations, and processes affecting temporary classified 
employees, or 
10.1.2 Contractor Subject to Withholding: Such individuals are classified as 
employees only for payroll withholding by the Internal Revenue Service. 
They are not employees for purposes of workers’ compensation, 

EXPENDITURES 
  
Consulting, Personal Services, and 
Independent Contractors 
R-8335 
Business Services 4 of 4 
 
unemployment insurance, or any other employee benefit. They must also 
provide appropriate insurance and indemnifications as determined by the 
District. 
 (Formerly R-8313) 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 12/21/76 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 2/4/81; 6/16/82; 4/19/95; 07/24/96; 3/17//97; 1/15/03; 9/28/15 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 9/28/15 
Board Policy: P-8335