ORGANIZATIONAL PROCEDURES 
 
Student Trustee   R-3122 
Election Procedures 1 of 5 
 
1.0 Candidate Eligibility 
1.1 Each candidate must file with the Vice President of Student Services, or designee, 
a nominating petition containing signatures of at least fifty (50) students enrolled 
in the current spring semester. At the time the candidate files the petition, the 
candidate must meet the qualifications to serve as the Student Trustee. 
1.2 Petitions shall be available six (6) weeks prior to election day at each campus at 
the Student Activities Office. A copy of Administrative Regulation R-3122, shall 
be given to each person requesting a petition. Spring Break shall not be counted 
as part of this six (6) weeks. 
1.3 The deadline for submitting petitions shall be 5:00 p.m., three (3) weeks prior to 
the first election day. Verification that signers of the petition are enrolled students 
at a Los Rios Community College District College shall be conducted on each 
campus under the supervision of the Vice President of Student Services, or 
designee. Spring Break shall not be counted as part of this three (3) weeks. 
2.0 Election 
2.1 Election for Student Trustee will take place under the direction and supervision of 
the Vice Chancellor of Education and Technology, or designee. This election 
shall be held in April on the same days at each College on the same dates and 
times as the Student Body Association elections. The election dates shall be 
scheduled by the month of September preceding the election. 
2.2 The polling hours and the manner in which students are determined to be eligible 
to vote in the Student Trustee election shall be uniform across the Los Rios 
Community College District. Only students who are enrolled in the Colleges of 
the District may vote in this election. A student may only cast a single vote in any 
Student Trustee election. 
2.3 Polling shall be conducted online as established by the Vice President of Student 
Services, or designee, at each College, in his or her discretion. Adequate 
information shall be provided to students about when polls will open and close 
and how to access the online election. Computers shall be made available at each 
College and Center to allow students to vote.  
2.4 Where the use of Student Records (as defined in Administrative Regulation R-
2265) is necessary to verify voter eligibility, College administrators, faculty or 
staff shall participate in the verification process to protect the confidentiality of 
student records.  
2.5 The Associate Vice Chancellor of Student Services, or designee, shall ensure that 
candidate biographies and statements are publically displayed at each of the 
campuses, and posted prior to the election and shall be distributed widely prior to 
the election. 

ORGANIZATIONAL PROCEDURES 
 
Student Trustee   R-3122 
Election Procedures 2 of 5 
 
2.6 There shall be at least one (1) public candidate forum held at each College at 
which all candidates are invited to participate. 
2.7 Candidates will be listed on the ballot in an order determined by a random 
selection process. 
2.8 Where paper ballots are used, Student Trustee ballots will be collected in separate 
locked boxes and sealed at the end of each voting day. Ballots will be counted at 
the District Office at the close of the election by the Student Life/Activities 
Advisors and a student from each College chosen in collaboration between the 
Student Life/Activities Advisor, or designee, and the College Student Senate 
President. The incumbent Student Trustee and/or any candidates for the position 
shall not participate in the counting of votes. In the event of a recall election, the 
same procedure will be followed. 
2.9 Where electronic voting is used, the results shall be viewable at each College by 
at least the Student Life/Activities Advisor and a student from the College chosen 
in collaboration between the Student Life/Activities Advisor, or designee, and the 
College Student Senate President and the District Office. The incumbent Student 
Trustee and/or any candidates for the position shall not participate. Paper ballots 
may be used as back up to the electronic system as needed. 
2.10 The Chancellor will be notified of the election results as soon as they are available 
and shall certify the results of the election, and the information shall be 
disseminated through the District Office of the Vice Chancellor of Education and 
Technology as soon as possible. 
3.0 Campaigning 
3.1 Campaigning is defined as any activity that promotes the candidacy of one or 
more individuals for an office in the Student Trustee election. This includes, but is 
not necessarily limited to: scheduling appearances; lobbying a voter; posting, 
publication, or distribution of advertisements, correspondence, or literature. 
Campaigning does not include nomination petition signing. Campaign 
expenditures include all funds and/or donations used in campaigning and include 
money used to purchase goods or services related to campaigning, and the fair-
market value of goods or services given or donated to a candidate. Campaign 
expenditures do not include the provision of goods or services by a College or a 
Student Body Association to all candidates on an equal basis.  
3.2 Posting signs for place-holding before the start of campaigning is not permitted.  
3.3 Campaigning is permitted in the open areas of the College campus in compliance 
with District Policy and Administrative Regulation R-1411. Campaigning is 
permitted in classrooms only with permission of the Student Life/Activities 
Advisor. Campaign messages should be focused on subjects within the purview of 
the Student Body Association. Colleges are encouraged to provide candidates 

ORGANIZATIONAL PROCEDURES 
 
Student Trustee   R-3122 
Election Procedures 3 of 5 
 
with access to computers, equipment, and office supplies to produce campaign 
materials as space and budgets allow.    
3.4 Posters may be placed on the College campuses only on appropriate areas subject 
to approval by appropriate College officials in compliance with District Policy 
and Administrative Regulation R-1313.  
3.5 A candidate for Student Trustee shall not form a slate with any candidate for any 
other office. A slate is the listing of multiple names by candidates on a single 
piece of campaign literature, campaign publication, or other document, whether 
paper or electronic. 
3.6 Each candidate is limited to expending $80 per 10,000 students in the District for 
campaign expenditures in any single election.  
3.7 All campaign contributions to Student Trustee candidates must be from 
individuals. Individual candidates may not solicit campaign contributions in 
excess of the maximum amounts listed in Section 3.6 above. Money from 
corporations and political action committees is prohibited.  
3.8 Each candidate must document campaign expenditures to the Office of Student 
Life and file an expenditure form, complete with receipts, by 3:00 p.m., two (2) 
business days prior to the first day of the election. Receipts can be requested at 
any time. Expenditure forms must be filed even if there are no expenditures. 
Supplemental final reports are due by 3:00 p.m. the day after the election closes. 
Each candidate is subject to disqualification, as determined by the Student 
Life/Activities Advisor, if expenditure reports are filed late or if total expenditures 
exceed the limits of Section 3.6 above. All campaign materials must be accounted 
for on the expenditure form, including but not limited to: posting and publishing 
materials; advertisements; holding charity events such as concerts, rallies, or other 
social gatherings; and distributing literature.  
3.9 The Office of Student Trustee shall be nonpartisan. 
3.10 No College- or District-sponsored organization shall be allowed to finance the 
campaign of any candidate for a Student Trustee office, nor may any individual 
finance the campaign of a candidate in the name of a District- or College-
sponsored organization.  
3.11 The District, Colleges, and the Student Body Association may utilize incentives to 
encourage students to vote in elections, but not for or against any particular 
candidate. As part of campaigning, candidates and individuals who support or 
oppose any candidates may not use food, money, gifts, or alcohol. 
4.0 Election Challenges 
4.1 Any challenges to the validity of the election of the Student Trustee shall be 
submitted to the Chancellor’s Office in writing as soon as they are discovered, but 

ORGANIZATIONAL PROCEDURES 
 
Student Trustee   R-3122 
Election Procedures 4 of 5 
 
no later than two (2) calendar days after the date of the conclusion of the election. 
The Chancellor, or designee, shall respond to those challenges in writing. The 
Chancellor’s determination of those challenges shall be final.  
4.2 In the event the Chancellor, or designee, concludes there was a material 
irregularity in the election, the Chancellor, or designee, may make any 
determination that fairness requires, including, but not limited to, invalidating the 
election and calling for a new election. The Chancellor’s or designee’s 
determination shall be disseminated through the Vice Chancellor of Education 
and Technology as soon as possible. 
4.3 Election irregularities may include, but are not limited to, the following: 
4.3.1 The polling place workers were guilty of misconduct;  
4.3.2 A candidate was not at the time of election eligible to hold office;  
4.3.3 A candidate gave or offered a bribe or reward or conspired with someone 
else to do so, for the purpose of procuring the election; 
4.3.4 The polling hours or eligibility determinations deviated from those 
specified by the Vice Chancellor of Education and Technology; 
4.3.5 Illegal votes were cast;  
4.3.6 The individuals conducting the election made errors sufficient to change 
the result of the election; 
4.3.7 There was an error in vote counting or summaries of ballot counts; or  
4.3.8 Any other issue that affected the fundamental fairness of the election. 
5.0 Student Advisory Committee  
5.1 The Los Rios Community College District Student Advisory Committee shall be 
formed to nominate candidates for appointment to District-wide committees and 
to provide a forum for communications and exchange of ideas, information, and 
concerns between the Student Trustee, the College Student Body Association, and 
the students of the District. 
5.2 The Committee shall consist of the following:  The Student Trustee; one (1) 
representative from American River College; one (1) representative from 
Cosumnes River College; one (1) representative from Sacramento City College; 
and one (1) representative from Folsom Lake College; each to be selected by the 
respective Student Senate. The Student Advisory Committee appointments are to 
be elected or appointed officers from their respective campus Student Senate and 
meet the minimum qualification requirements identified in Section 2.0 of District 
Policy, P-3122 except that they do not have to be a California resident.  

ORGANIZATIONAL PROCEDURES 
 
Student Trustee   R-3122 
Election Procedures 5 of 5 
 
5.3 The representative from each student association shall have one (1) vote. The 
Student Trustee shall have no vote except in the event of a tie. 
5.4 One (1) member of the committee will be selected to be the secretary.  
5.5 One (1) Student Life/Activities Advisor or designee of the Vice President of 
Student Services shall be selected to serve in an advisory capacity to the Student 
Advisory Committee. Commencing in the college year 2012-2013, the authority 
to select the Student Life/Activities Advisor rests with the Vice President of 
Student Services at each College pursuant to a rotation schedule in alphabetical 
order. 
5.6 The Student Advisory Committee will hold regular monthly meetings during the 
year and special meetings, as needed. 
5.6.1 If the meeting is to be held at the District Office, the Associate Vice 
Chancellor of Student Services will be advised. 
5.6.2 If the meeting is to be held on a College campus, the Vice President of 
Student Services, or designee, will be advised. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 2/29/78 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 2/17/82; 3/5/91; 8/13/91; 8/21/02; 10/22/07; 11/18/09; 10/24/11; 
10/28/13; 4/27/15 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 4/27/15 
Board Policy: P-3122