EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Transfer R-6133 
Assignment and Reassignment 1 of 2 
 
1.0 Grounds for Administrative Transfer 
1.1 The following are grounds for administrative transfer: 
1.1.1 Overage in staff at some location(s) with offsetting vacancies at some 
other location(s); 
1.1.2 Critical District need for special assignments in a specific position 
class(es); or 
1.1.3 Need for improvement in staff relationships or management operations. 
2.0 Criteria for Administrative Transfer 
2.1 Where the administrative transfer involves an overage in staff, the employee to be 
transferred shall be an employee who is assigned to the work unit that has the 
overage. 
2.2 Where the administrative transfer involves a critical need of the District for a 
special assignment within a specific class, the following criteria applies: 
2.2.1 If there is only one employee in the District with the specific qualifications 
required, that employee shall be transferred. 
2.2.2 If there are two or more employees otherwise equally qualified for the 
specific critical need assignment, the Chancellor shall determine which 
individual shall be transferred. 
3.0 Awareness of Staff Overages 
3.1 The administration of the location that has a staff overage shall notify the District 
Personnel Office and the offices of the Presidents of the other locations of any 
overage within five (5) workdays of the occurrence of an overstaffing. 
4.0 Execution of Administrative Transfer 
4.1 Administrative transfers shall be executed solely at the direction of the 
Chancellor. 
4.2 Voluntary transfer may be requested prior to implementing the administrative 
transfer procedure. 
5.0 A regular employee in the same job classification as the vacancy may apply for a transfer. 
The manager may initially limit interviews to District employees. Alternatively, the 
employee(s) will be interviewed by the interview committee as part of the candidate pool. 
When more than four employees from the bargaining unit request a transfer, the interview 
may be limited to only the four most qualified based on screening of applications. 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Transfer R-6133 
Assignment and Reassignment 2 of 2 
 
 (Formerly P-6123) 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 7/20/82 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 10/20/82; 4/28/97 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed:  
Board Policy: P-6133