PERSONNEL FILES 
 
Maintenance/Access   R-9511 
Personnel File  1 of 3 
 
1.0 Custodian of Records 
1.1 The custodian of all personnel files maintained at the District's central 
administrative offices shall be the Director, Personnel Services. Personnel files 
shall be kept in a secure place at all times and access thereto shall be in 
accordance with the regulations hereby established. 
2.0 Review of Personnel Files  
2.1 Any employee may examine their own personnel file in the District Office by 
requesting an appointment with the custodian of records. In the review of the file, 
the employee may be accompanied by a friend or representative of their 
professional organization. 
2.2 The employee may not remove documents permanently from the personnel folder, 
but the individual may request to have single copies made for personal use. The 
employee shall bear the cost of this reproduction. 
2.1.1 Confidential information that may not be released to the employee 
includes reports, records, or ratings which (a) were obtained prior to the 
employment of the person involved, (b) were prepared by identifiable 
examination committee members, or (c) were obtained in connection with 
a promotional examination or interview. Such information may be 
released only to the Chancellor for official purposes. (Education Code 
§ 87031) 
2.3 The custodian of records shall deny access to personnel files to members of the 
general public, members of the Governing Board, the Chancellor, other officers 
and employees of the District, and any other person except under the following 
prescribed terms and conditions and according to procedures outlined: 
a) Pursuant to judicial process; 
b) to that employee for whom the file was compiled in accordance with 
Section 2.1 of this regulation; 
c) for the purpose of seeking advice from the legal counsel to the District, or 
prosecuting or defending litigation or administrative proceedings in which 
the District is interested or to which it is a party; 
d) to staff designated by the custodian, for the purpose of filing documents 
and gathering data in the normal and ministerial course of District 
operations; 
e) to the Chancellor, and any manager within the chain of command between 
the Chancellor and the employee for whom the file was compiled, in 
connection with personnel transactions related to the employment status or 

PERSONNEL FILES 
 
Maintenance/Access   R-9511 
Personnel File  2 of 3 
 
assignment of the employee for whom the file was compiled, or for related 
purposes associated with District operations; 
f) to the Board of Trustees or any individual member, thereof, when meeting 
in closed session in connection with personnel transactions related to the 
employment status or assignment of the employee for whom the file was 
compiled, or for related purposes associated with District operations; 
g) to individual members of the Board of Trustees who will also be allowed 
to review files in the Personnel Office in accordance with the procedure 
outlined under Section 6.0 below when a closed session matter pertaining 
to personnel transactions has been continued by Board consensus to allow 
further review. 
3.0 Material of Derogatory Nature 
3.1 Information of a derogatory nature shall not be entered in an employee's 
personnel file unless and until the employee is given notice and an opportunity to 
review and comment thereon. An employee shall have the right to enter and have 
attached a personal response to any such derogatory statement. (Education Code 
87031) 
4.0 Information Available to Public 
4.1 Information available to the public generally includes the employee's name, 
employing department, date of hire, salary range, position title and classification, 
and office telephone number. 
4.2 The Personnel Services Office shall notify the employee of the information 
released and the requestor's name. 
4.3 Requests for such information must be presented in writing to the custodian of 
records. If information has been supplied by the employee to credit or lending 
institutions, the Personnel Services Office may confirm such information by 
phone and need to inform the employee of this confirmation. 
5.0 Information Available for Official District Purposes 
5.1 Information available for official District purposes only and not to the public 
includes home address and phone, social security number, marital status, date of 
birth and all other information. 
6.0 Procedure 
6.1 Any person who is allowed by the custodian to inspect a personnel file pursuant to 
the provisions of subparagraphs (e) and (g) of Section 2.3 above, shall, as a 
condition precedent to such inspection, fill out and sign a form which states the 
purposes for which the inspection was made, the date of inspection, and 

PERSONNEL FILES 
 
Maintenance/Access   R-9511 
Personnel File  3 of 3 
 
containing the signature of the person who made the inspection. The completed 
form shall be placed in the personnel file inspected. 
6.2 With respect to inspections of a personnel file pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.3 above, copies of the contents of the files shall not be given to persons 
making the inspection except by order of the custodian of records. 
6.3 Persons who have inspected personnel files shall not divulge information derived 
therefrom to any person who is not an officer or employee of the District or to 
another officer or employee of the District except when necessary in the conduct 
of District business. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 2/21/78 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 2/18/81; 6/16/82; 10/23/90; 10/26/98 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed:  
Board Policy: P-9511