EXPENDITURES 
  
Public Records Retention R-8381 
Public Records 1 of 5 
 
1.0 Definition of Records 
1.1 “Records” means all records, maps, books, papers, and documents that Los Rios 
Community College District is required by law to prepare or retain by law or 
official duty. "Records" includes "student records" as defined in section 76210 of 
the Education Code. 
1.2 The following documents are not "records" and may be destroyed at any time: 
A) Additional copies of documents beyond the original or one copy. (A 
person receiving a duplicated copy need not retain it.) 
B) Correspondence between district employees that does not pertain to 
personnel matters or constitute a student record. 
C) Advertisements and other sales material received. 
D) Textbooks used for instruction, and other instructional materials, including 
library books, pamphlets and magazines. 
2.0 Classification of Records:   
2.1 The Chancellor, or designee shall classify all records of the District pursuant to 
section 59022 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations and other 
applicable state and federal statutes into three Classes:  Class 1-Permanent; Class 
2-Optional or Class 3-Disposable.   The following definitions of these classes 
shall be followed:  
2.1.1 Class 1-Permanent records (Title 5, § 59023): 
The original of each of the records listed in this Section, or one exact copy 
thereof when the original is required by law to be filed with another 
agency, is a Class 1-Permanent record. 
The following reports: 
1) The annual official budget; 
2) The annual financial report of all funds, including cafeteria 
and student body funds; 
3) The annual audit of all funds; 
4) The annual full-time equivalent student, including Period 1 
and Period 2 reports; and 
5) The other major annual reports, including: 

EXPENDITURES 
  
Public Records Retention R-8381 
Public Records 2 of 5 
 
a) Those containing information relating to property, 
activities, financial condition, or transactions; and 
b) Those declared by board minutes to be permanent. 
The following official actions: 
1) Minutes of the board or committees thereof, including the 
text of a rule, regulation, policy, or resolution not set forth 
verbatim in minutes but included therein by reference only; 
2) Elections, including the call, if any, for and the result (but 
not including detail documents, such as ballots) of an 
election called, conducted or canvassed by the governing 
board for a board member, the board member's recall, 
issuance of bonds, incurring any long-term liability, change 
in maximum tax rates, reorganization, or any other purpose; 
and 
3) Records transmitted by another agency that pertain to that 
agency's action with respect to district reorganization. 
The following personnel records of employees:  
All detail records relating to employment, assignment, employee 
evaluations, amounts and dates of service rendered, termination or 
dismissal of an employee in any position, sick leave record, rate of 
compensation, salaries or wages paid, deductions or withholdings 
made and the person or agency to whom such amounts were paid. 
In lieu of the detail records, a complete proven summary payroll 
record for every employee of the school district containing the 
same data may be classified as Class 1-Permanent, and the detail 
records may then be classified as Class 3- Disposable. 
The following student records: 
1) The records of enrollment and scholarship for each student. 
Such records of enrollment and scholarship may include 
but need not be limited to: 
a) Name of student; 
b) Date of birth; 
c) Place of birth; 
d) Name and address of a parent having custody or a 
guardian, if the student is a minor; 

EXPENDITURES 
  
Public Records Retention R-8381 
Public Records 3 of 5 
 
e) Entering and leaving date for each academic year 
and for any summer session or other extra session; 
f) Subjects taken during each year, half year, summer 
session or quarter; and 
g) If grades or credits are given, the grades and 
number of credits toward graduation allowed for work 
taken. 
2) All records pertaining to any accident or injury involving a 
student for which a claim for damages has been filed as 
required by law, including any policy of liability insurance 
relating thereto, except that these records cease to be Class 
1-Permanent records, one year after the claim has been 
settled or after the applicable statute of limitations has run. 
Property Records: 
All detail records relating to land, buildings, and 
equipment. In lieu of such detail records, a complete 
property ledger may be classified as Class 1-Permanent, 
and the detail records may then be classified as Class 3-
Disposable, if the property ledger includes: 
1) All fixed assets; 
2) An equipment inventory; and 
3) For each unit of property, the date of acquisition or 
augmentation, the person from whom acquired, an 
adequate description or identification, and the 
amount paid, and comparable data if the unit is 
disposed of by sale, loss, or otherwise. 
2.1.2 When Class 1 - Permanent documents are imaged, the original record may 
be classified as Class-3 disposable when the following requirements are 
met: 
1) The copy is accurate; 
2) The document or the system contains a signed and dated 
affirmation that the copies meet the business records requirements 
of the Evidence Code  (A cover sheet covering multiple documents 
may be used when a large batch of documents is scanned); 
3) The copy is placed in an accessible location and provision is made 
for permanently preserving, examining and using that location; and  

EXPENDITURES 
  
Public Records Retention R-8381 
Public Records 4 of 5 
 
4) If the record is photographed or microfilmed, it must be on film 
approved for permanent records by the United States Bureau of 
Standards.  (Title 5, § 59022) 
2.1.3 Class 2-Optional Records 
Any record worthy of further preservation but not classified as Class 1-
Permanent may be classified as Class 2-Optional.  (Title 5, § 59024.) If the 
chief executive officer, or other designee, determines that classification 
should not be made by the time specified in section 59022, all records of 
the prior year may be classified as Class 2-Optional, pending further 
review and classification within one year. 
2.1.4 Class 3- Disposable Records  
All records, other than Continuing Records, not classified as Class 1-
Permanent or Class 2-Optional, shall be classified as Class 3-Disposable, 
including, but not limited to, detail records relating to: 
1) Records basic to audit, including those relating to attendance, full-
time equivalent student, or a business or financial transaction 
(purchase orders, invoices, warrants, ledger sheets, canceled 
checks and stubs, student body and cafeteria fund records, etc.), 
and detail records used in the preparation of any other report; and 
2) Periodic reports, such as daily, weekly, and monthly reports, 
bulletins, and instructions.  (Title 5, § 59025.) 
3.0 Retention Period 
3.1 Class 1-Permanent records and shall be retained indefinitely, unless copied or 
reproduced in accordance with California Code of Regulations, Title 5, section 
59022, subdivision (e). 
3.2 Class 2-Optional records shall then be retained until reclassified as Class 3-
Disposable. 
3.3 Generally, a Class 3-Disposable record, unless otherwise specified in this 
Subchapter, should be destroyed during the third college year after the college 
year in which it originated (e.g., 2010-11 plus 3 = 2013-14). Federal programs, 
including various student aid programs, may require longer retention periods and 
such program requirements shall take precedence over the requirements contained 
herein. 
3.4 With respect to records basic to an audit, a Class 3-Disposable record shall not be 
destroyed until after the third July 1 succeeding the completion of the audit 
required by Education Code Section 84040 or of any other legally required audit, 
or that period specified by Section 59118, or after the ending date of any retention 

EXPENDITURES 
  
Public Records Retention R-8381 
Public Records 5 of 5 
 
period required by any agency other than the State of California, whichever date 
is later. 
3.5 With respect to continuing records, a continuing record shall not be destroyed 
until the third year after it has been classified as Class 3- Disposable. 
4.0 Manner of Destruction 
Upon the order of the Board, chancellor, or designee that specified records shall be 
destroyed, such records shall be permanently destroyed by such foolproof methods as 
shredding, or pulping; and such destruction shall be supervised by the chancellor or other 
designee.  Further, destruction of records shall be approved by the Board of Trustees. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 8/29/11 
Adm. Regulation Revised:  
Adm. Regulation Reviewed:  
Board Policy: P-8381