INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 
 
Field Trip R-7133 
Instructional Arrangements 1 of 3 
 
1.0 Field Trips - Campus Based Vehicles 
1.1 Use of District vehicles assigned each college shall be the responsibility of the 
president or designee for the purposes of supporting the regularly scheduled 
educational program of the college. Field trip fees shall not be charged for trips 
that are required as part of the course as described in the college catalog. 
Transportation for ski trips which are required as part of the regular instructional 
program shall be provided by outside commercial transportation companies. 
Appropriate transportation fees shall be charged to the student based upon 
existing contracted rental arrangements. 
1.2 District vehicles may be utilized for activities funded by categorical funds such as 
EOPS, Vocational Education funds, handicap funds and Children’s Center as 
determined and scheduled by the president or his designee. In addition, 
community service activities, optional class enrichment field trips and student 
association and club activities may also utilize district vehicles in accordance with 
college priorities. When such vehicles are utilized for these program activities, a 
field trip fee shall be charged per person but not less than the minimum charge 
indicated in 1.2.1. 
1.2.1  Field Trip Fee Schedule Person 
Charge 
Per 
Person 
Minimum 
Charge 
 a. Sacramento, Local Area $3.00 $9.00 
 b. Auburn, Placerville, Davis $5.00 $15.00 
 c. City of: San Francisco 
Lake Tahoe 
Redding 
Ocean (Bodega Bay, 
etc.) 
$10.00 
 
 
$30.00 
Trips extending beyond the area stated in (c) above shall be charged thirty-
five cents (35 cents) per mile, the salary and fringe benefit costs associated 
with the driver (excluding faculty) and any other associated expenses. 
1.2.2 If the total fees collected per person are less than the minimum charge 
indicated, the minimum charge stated above shall be assessed. 
1.2.3 When district vehicles are used for district activities funded by categorical 
funds, the program funds shall be directly charged a fee as 
allowed/provided by such categorical funds in accordance with the fee 
schedule per 1.2.1. 
1.2.4 Program funds shall also be directly charged for vehicles used for 
community service coordinating activities, student association or other 
club activities in accordance with the fee schedule per 1.2.1. 

INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 
 
Field Trip R-7133 
Instructional Arrangements 2 of 3 
 
1.3 Transportation for field trips to locations/activities within a radius of 25 miles of 
the college sponsoring the field trip will not normally be provided. Students will 
be expected to reach the location individually through their own means. 
2.0 Field Trips - District Bus Transportation  
2.1 Bus transportation will be provided without charging a field trip fee for trips in 
support of regular instructional/athletic programs and courses and other programs 
if the following conditions are met. 
2.1.1 If regular programs and courses included in the college catalogs/schedules, 
and 
2.1.2 The field trip is included in the approved course outline as an integral part 
of the instructional activity, and 
2.1.3 Is required of all students to successfully complete the course, 
2.2 On the basis of bus availability after needs are met per 2.1 above, bus 
transportation will be provided for class enrichment trips, categorically funded 
programs or community service classes or activities in accordance with the fee 
schedule per 2.2.1. 
When District buses are utilized for field trips in these programs, a field trip fee 
will be charged to students/persons or shall be charged directly to the program 
funds as follows: 
2.2.1  Field Trip Bus Fee Schedule Person 
Charge 
Per 
Person 
Minimum 
Charge 
 a. Sacramento, Local Area $3.00 $45.00 
 b. Auburn, Placerville, Davis $5.00 $75.00 
 c. City of:: San Francisco 
Lake Tahoe 
Redding 
Ocean (Bodega Bay, etc.) 
$10.00 
 
 
$150.00 
 d. Trips extending beyond area stated in (c) and extending over 15 hours 
shall be charged on the basis of $1.20 per mile, salary and fringe 
benefit costs associated with the driver’s salary (other than faculty) 
and any other. 
2.2.2 Trips scheduled in advance and in accordance with established scheduling 
processes and priorities, including bus and driver availability. 
2.3 Transportation for field trips to locations/activities within a radius of 25 miles of 
the college sponsoring the field trip will not normally be provided. Students will 
be expected to reach the location individually through their own means. 

INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 
 
Field Trip R-7133 
Instructional Arrangements 3 of 3 
 
3.0 Refund Policy 
3.1 There shall be no refunds of field trip fees unless the activity is cancelled by the 
college. 
3.2 If less than fifteen (15) students sign up and pay for a bus field trip, the trip may 
also be cancelled. Fees paid would be refunded if such activity is cancelled. The 
appropriate administrator must approve bus trips conducted with less than fifteen 
(15) students. 
3.3 If the total fees per field trip collected is greater than the minimum charge listed 
in 2.2.1 (a-c) above or fully covers all costs as determined by 2.2.1 (d), the trip 
may still remain scheduled as determined by the appropriate administrator. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 4/19/83 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 11/15/83 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed:  
Board Policy: P-7133