STUDENT SUCCESS AND SUPPORT PROGRAM 
 
Student Rights and 
Responsibilities 
R-2841 
Student Rights and Responsibilities 1 of 1 
 
1.0 Education and Career Goal 
1.1 Each nonexempt student shall identify a specific education and career goal during 
the term after which the student completes fifteen (15) semester units of degree 
applicable credit course work. 
1.1.1 Each nonexempt student shall be given the opportunity to develop a 
student education plan describing the responsibilities of the student, the 
requirements the student must meet, and the courses, programs, and 
services required to achieve the stated goal. 
1.1.2 All nonexempt first-time students shall be required to identify a course of 
study, be assessed to determine appropriate course placement, complete 
orientation, and participate in counseling, advising, or education planning 
services. 
1.1.3 The student education plan shall be recorded in written or electronic form. 
The plan shall be reviewed as necessary to ensure that it continues to 
accurately reflect the needs and goals of the student.  
2.0 Student Rights and Responsibilities 
2.1 If a student fails to fulfill the responsibilities listed in the student education plan 
or fails to cooperate with the Los Rios Community College District in the 
development of an education plan within ninety (90) days after declaring a 
specific education goal, or fails to abide by his/her education plan, the District 
may suspend or terminate Student Success and Support Program (SSSP) services 
authorized. (Title 5, § 55530) 
3.0 Due Process 
3.1 A student may challenge any alleged violation of the provisions of the SSSP through 
the filing of a grievance. The Colleges shall investigate and attempt to resolve any 
such challenge in a timely manner. If the student alleges the application of an 
assessment test has the purpose or effect of subjecting any person to unlawful 
discrimination, then, upon the completion of the student grievance process, the 
College shall advise the student that he or she may file a formal complaint of 
unlawful discrimination. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 10/8/91 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 4/27/15 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 4/27/15 
Board Policy: P-2841