BUILDING CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM 
 
Facilities Planning R-8417 
General Planning 1 of 9 
 
1.0 Facility Planning Process 
1.1 The facility planning process is an integral part of the Los Rios 
Community College District’s educational planning activities. Typically, 
educational program planning occurs on a District-wide level, College 
level, division level or departmental level. The educational plan 
determines the scope or impact on facilities.  
1.2 Facilities planning is dependent on quantitative evaluation of existing 
space, the ability to serve students, and on carefully documented 
projections of future needs. The construction of facilities should be the 
result of a rational and orderly planning process, stemming from the 
District Strategic Plan and an educational program planning process.  
1.3 These Administrative Regulations are intended to describe the criteria 
that shall be used in facilities planning to determine: What type of 
facilities projects should be pursued; the size, when the facility should be 
changed, type and cost of facilities projects; and how facilities projects 
should be funded.  
1.4 The District shall maintain and annually update a Long Range Capital 
Needs Plan (LRCNP). The LRCNP shall identify, estimate and project 
the size, type, location and cost of needed construction, remodel or 
modernization projects for each Campus and site throughout the 
District.  
1.5 The key factors in determining and projecting facility or space needs 
are:  
1.5.1  Projected regional population and population growth; 
1.5.2 The type of student and the kinds and types of program and 
service they will need and want;  
1.5.3 The numbers and type of staff needed to serve the students;  
1.5.4 The types of facilities needed to house the planned programs and 
services; 
1.5.5 The current space utilization for a facility or the College; 
1.5.6 The projected facility utilization for the College; and  
1.5.7 The funds required to provide the program, staff and facilities.  
1.6 The District shall develop and annually file the required State capital 
outlay planning documents and submissions. 
1.6.1 The State’s capital outlay planning document is referred to as the 
Five Year Construction Plan. All District projects planned for the 

BUILDING CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM 
 
Facilities Planning R-8417 
General Planning 2 of 9 
 
next five years, as listed in the LRCNP, shall be included in the 
State submission.  
1.6.2 A project(s) must be listed in the District’s LRCNP document in 
order to be included in the State submission.  
1.6.3 For eligible and competitively ranked District projects, an Initial 
Project Proposals (IPPs) is prepared as the first step in the State’s 
capital outlay process. The IPP submission for a given 
project/facility requests State Chancellor’s Office 
acknowledgement of the project and funding approval.  
1.6.4 The preparation of a Final Project Proposals (FPPs) is the final 
detailed proposal and request for a specific project/facility 
approval and funding that is submitted to the State Chancellor’s 
Office. 
2.0 Types of Facilities Projects 
There are two major types of facility planning activities:  
2.1 New construction - this type of project adds new space.  
2.1.1 The primary consideration or criteria for evaluating and 
prioritizing new construction projects are: 
2.1.1.1 Projected growth (or decrease) in enrollment for a given 
program; 
2.1.1.2 Projected growth (or decrease) in enrollment for the 
College’s service area; 
2.1.1.3 New or major changes in educational programs; 
2.1.1.4 Current and projected facility capacity or College 
capacity; and 
2.1.1.5 Eligible or meets State’s criteria of capital outlay funding 
guidelines. 
2.1.2 Enrollment growth projected for a new facility on a College 
campus compared to the enrollment capacity of existing space at 
that College is the primary factor in determining: 
2.1.2.1 The size of the proposed project; 
2.1.2.2 Possible funding sources; and 
2.1.2.3 When a given type of facility may be funded.  
2.1.3 This projected enrollment comparison to the existing space is 
referred to as “capacity load” or “cap load.” Capacity load is a 

BUILDING CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM 
 
Facilities Planning R-8417 
General Planning 3 of 9 
 
key evaluation component used by the state and District facility 
planning activities in order to evaluate a facility project’s 
competitive position for its category (Sec 4.1.1.1). Capacity Load 
is further described in this regulation.  
2.2 Modernization - this type of project modernizes existing space either for 
the same programs or for changes in programs. The primary consideration 
for evaluating Modernization and Maintenance projects are: 
2.2.1 The age and condition of the existing facility; 
2.2.2 The education program need; 
2.2.3 The number of students, projected and current, that may be 
impacted by the facility change; 
2.2.4 The cost to modernize considering the total facility replacement 
cost;  
2.2.5 Health and safety considerations; 
2.2.6 All or some of the above factors should be used to determine how 
a renovation/modernization project is funded and the estimated 
completion schedule. 
3.0 District-Wide Planning  
3.1 The District shall coordinate and consolidate the facilities planning 
activities of the Colleges, and shall be responsible for the following: 
3.1.1 Determining the projected regional population and population 
growth by specific campus or site;  
3.1.2 Determining the anticipated type and amount of space that will be 
needed at each site; 
3.1.3 Determining the existing facilities types and capacities; 
3.1.4 Developing of State prescribed Capacity load ratios;  
3.1.5 Developing and updating of the District’s LRCNP;  
3.1.6 Determining the best possible funding sources or funding options 
which may include:  
3.1.6.1 State Capital Outlay Funds, 
3.1.6.2 State Equipment Funds for State funded capital outlay 
projects or State Instructional Equipment Funds, 
3.1.6.3 District funds, including issuance and use of local bond 
funds, if any. 

BUILDING CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM 
 
Facilities Planning R-8417 
General Planning 4 of 9 
 
3.1.7 Reviewing and reporting on current space utilization for a facility 
or College.  
3.2 College planning occurs across the District and is an on-going and 
continuous activity. The Colleges shall coordinate closely with District 
facility planning staff. The College is responsible for: 
3.2.1 Development of individual or a department’s educational 
program plans and the impact on existing facilities or new space 
requirements. Program planning components shall include: 
3.2.1.1 Description of the functions and responsibilities, 
3.2.1.2 Program requirements: lab, lecture, office, etc. and 
projected utilization; 
3.2.1.3 Student growth/decline projections for the programs 
including estimated incremental increase/decrease in 
weekly student contact hours; 
3.2.1.4 Defining current instructional staffing levels and 
additional or changing instructional staff requirements 
(Full-time and adjunct FTE combined); 
3.2.1.5 Defining current classified staffing and related FTE and 
additional instructional and administrative support staff 
needed/changes; define new staffing requirements by 
position or job classification and additional FTE needed; 
and 
3.2.1.6 Determining initial start-up needs, classroom equipment, 
office equipment, telecom, and supply needs.  
3.2.2 Coordination with District facility planning staff, determining 
potential relocation plans during construction, remodeling, or 
renovation and optimal timing for project; and 
3.2.3 Assisting facility planning staff in the identification of potential 
secondary effects.  
3.2.4 Coordination of all departments’ enrollment projections 
(growth/decline) to ensure that total projections for the College 
correlate with enrollment projections and capacity load ratios 
provided by the District. Colleges shall develop educational 
master plans that indicate which programs are intended to grow 
and which programs are intended to decrease.  
3.2.5 The overall goal for facility planning is to rely upon a College’s 
educational master plan as the driving factor. An educational 
master plan for each College may be developed which indicates 

BUILDING CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM 
 
Facilities Planning R-8417 
General Planning 5 of 9 
 
program and student enrollment projections, and the related 
facilities or space needs for changing programs. 
4.0 New Construction – Criteria for Planning 
4.1 Capacity Load Ratios 
4.1.1 Capacity Load ratios shall be developed for all facilities projects, 
using State guidelines as described below:  
4.1.1.1 The capacity of existing facilities shall be calculated for 
the following categories: Lecture, Lab, Library, Office, 
AVTV, PE, Bookstore/Cafeteria and Parking. State 
mandated formulas and District standards shall be used to 
develop these categories. These eight types of spaces shall 
encompass all types of space. The anticipated load shall 
be determined using State enrollment forecasts and shall 
be distributed to the same eight types of spaces listed in 
the above paragraph. This load shall also be distributed to 
the various campuses according to historical data and 
forecasted population growth and shifts. The District’s 
Office of Institutional Research shall be responsible to 
distribute these forecasted loads.  
4.1.2 Capacity/Load ratios are expressed as a percentage of facilities 
capacity to forecasted load. Example: Cap/Load ratio = 60% in 
lab, would read as “only able to serve 60% of forecasted student 
load.” 
4.2 Size, Type and Location of New Projects 
4.2.1 Capacity Load ratios shall be used to determine the size, type and 
location of new construction projects. They may also be used to 
determine which funding source should be pursued. 
4.2.2 Projects with low capacity load ratios in instructional spaces 
(lecture, lab, office, library and AVTV) are more likely to be 
funded by State resources and funding for these projects should 
be primarily by the State. 
4.2.3 Projects with mid-range capacity load ratios in instructional 
spaces could possibly be funded by the State and sharing of the 
cost of the project should be considered to make the projects 
more competitive for State funding. 
4.2.4 Projects with high capacity load ratios in instructional space are 
not likely to receive State funding and other resources should be 
pursued. 

BUILDING CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM 
 
Facilities Planning R-8417 
General Planning 6 of 9 
 
4.2.5 Projects that are primarily non-instructional spaces (PE, 
Bookstore/Cafeteria and Parking) are not likely to receive State 
funding and other resources should be pursued 
4.2.6 All projects, regardless of proposed funding source, shall be 
carefully planned to insure that all capacity load ratios do not 
exceed 100%, both at the campus level and District-wide. 
4.3 Cost Guidelines for New and Remodel Projects 
4.3.1 The maximum allowable cost for new construction and remodels 
shall be determined using “California Community Colleges 
Building Cost Guidelines” as published by the State Chancellor’s 
Office. 
4.3.2 The maximum allowable cost for furniture and equipment for 
new buildings shall be determined using “California Community 
Colleges Equipment Cost Guidelines” as published by the State 
Chancellor’s Office. 
4.3.3 The State is uses a “least cost to the State” policy. All facilities 
projects that will request State funding for capital outlay 
construction will be carefully planned to ensure they conform to 
the least cost to the State concept, so they remain competitive for 
State funding.  
4.4 Long Range Capital Needs Plan (LRNCP) 
4.4.1 The LRNCP shall incorporate all of the items and criteria 
discussed above.  
4.4.2 The LRNCP shall be prepared and updated annually by the 
District facility planning staff.  
4.4.3 Potential funding sources for construction projects must be 
supported by established criteria of the LRNCP. 
4.4.4 Funding for projects that are not indicated or supported by the 
LRNCP may not be considered. 
5.0 Modernization – Criteria for Planning: 
5.1 The primary objectives of modernization projects are to maintain an 
environment conducive to learning, to correct and avoid health and 
safety hazards, and to improve long term cost effectiveness of facility 
operations. 
5.2 Modernization projects should be coordinated, to the degree possible, 
with the State’s Scheduled Maintenance and Special Repairs (SMSR) 
program, however, the State does not allow mixing of modernization and 
SMSR funds. 

BUILDING CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM 
 
Facilities Planning R-8417 
General Planning 7 of 9 
 
5.3 Facilities Condition Audit 
5.3.1 The District shall work with the State Chancellor’s Office to 
prepare and maintain a Facilities Condition Audit that assesses 
the condition of all building systems and components, provides a 
complete listing of all deficiencies (needed building repairs) in 
the building systems and components, and identifies associated 
repair costs. 
5.3.2 All deficiencies will be prioritized as follows: 
5.3.2.1 Priority 1: Critical (Immediate); conditions in this 
category require immediate action to: 
5.3.2.1.1 Correct a cited safety hazard 
5.3.2.1.2 Stop accelerated deterioration 
5.3.2.1.3 Return a facility to operation 
5.3.2.2 Priority 2: Potentially Critical; conditions in this category, 
if not corrected expeditiously, will become critical within 
a year, including: 
5.3.2.2.1 Intermittent operations 
5.3.2.2.2 Rapid deterioration 
5.3.2.2.3 Potential life safety hazards 
5.3.2.3 Priority 3: Necessary; not yet critical, conditions in this 
category include items that represent a sensible 
improvement to existing conditions. These are not 
required for the most basic function of the facility. 
5.3.2.4 Priority 4: Does not meet current codes/standards; 
conditions in this category include items that do not 
conform to existing codes, but are “grand fathered” in 
their condition. No action is required at this time, but 
should substantial work be undertaken in contiguous area, 
certain existing conditions could require correction. 
5.3.3 The Facilities Condition Audit shall be used to develop Facilities 
Condition Indexes. 
5.3.3.1 A Facilities Condition Index (FCI) is the cost to repair a 
building’s deficiencies divided by the replacement value 
of the facility. This provides an approximate estimate of 
the facility’s condition. 
5.4 State-Scheduled Maintenance and Special Repair (SMSR) Programs 

BUILDING CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM 
 
Facilities Planning R-8417 
General Planning 8 of 9 
 
5.4.1 The District shall annually file a Scheduled Maintenance and 
Special Repairs five year plan and submit the District’s SMSR 
project/funding priorities for the next State budget year. 
Evaluation criteria used for developing the District’s priority for 
SMSRs: 
5.4.1.1 Type of project (i.e. roof, utility, mechanical, external, 
other). 
5.4.1.2 Severity of the problem - Relationship to potential facility 
closure or health and safety violation. 
5.4.1.3 Types of facilities which have maintenance problems are 
prioritized as follows: 
5.4.1.3.1 Instructional Classrooms and Laboratories 
5.4.1.3.2 Libraries 
5.4.1.3.3 Faculty and Administrative Offices 
5.4.1.3.4 Cafeterias 
5.4.1.3.5 Theaters and Physical Education Facilities 
5.4.1.3.6 Site Development 
5.4.1.3.7 Warehousing and Maintenance Facilities 
5.4.1.4 Age of the problem in relation to age of facility and the 
District’s ability to provide matching funds. 
5.4.1.5 A revision to the five year plan may be necessary for 
emergency projects which require immediate attention 
and were not included in the original submittal. 
5.4.1.6 Projects for those facilities that would not be state-
supported under the Community College Construction 
Act will not be considered in the Scheduled Maintenance 
and Special Repairs program (such as parking lots, 
stadiums, bookstores, and dormitories). 
5.4.1.7 Projects that contain both maintenance aspects and capital 
outlay features are to be pro-rated and will be considered 
on an individual basis. Such costs of any items of work 
included within a project that are in addition to 
recognized scheduled maintenance work, must be borne 
by the District. For example, if an un-insulated roof is 
being replaced with roofing and insulation, the entire cost 
of the insulation must be borne by the District. 
5.4.1.8 State defined categories for SMSR Projects: 

BUILDING CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM 
 
Facilities Planning R-8417 
General Planning 9 of 9 
 
5.4.1.8.1 Roof: Repair and Replacement 
5.4.1.8.2 Utilities: Telephone Lines Fire Alarm 
Systems; Flush Valves Water Systems; 
Irrigation Distribution Systems Lighting; 
Sewer Lines Plumbing; Switch Gear 
Elevators; Electrical Panels 
5.4.1.8.3 Mechanical: Air Compressors; Swamp 
Coolers; Chillers Cooling Towers; Boilers; 
Fan Coils; Energy Management Systems; 
Clock Systems; HVAC (heat, vent, and air 
conditioning); Sound Systems; Exhaust Hood 
Systems 
5.4.1.8.4 Exterior: Painting Windows; Replace Siding; 
Buildings Resurfacing (swimming pool); 
Doors (paint and replace only) 
5.4.1.8.5 Other: Lock System; Bleachers; Roads; 
Resurfacing Floors; Sidewalks/Walkway; 
Replacement Lockers; Flooring Replaced; 
Equipment Replaced; Tennis Courts; Area 
Grading; Signage; Interior Doors (replace 
doors, locks, and hardware)  
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 1/15/03 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 4/25/16 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 4/25/16 
Board Policy: P-8417