INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 
 
Controversial Issues R-7142 
Curriculum 1 of 2 
 
1.0 Issues Presented Openly and Fairly 
1.1 The individual faculty member who is discussing controversial issues should 
present the issues openly, with fairness and clarity. 
1.2 The faculty member should avoid imposing personal opinions by the pressure of 
authority in the classroom. 
1.3 Arguments should be presented from various points of view, taking care to 
distinguish between objective facts and personal opinions. 
1.4 Students should be encouraged to analyze issues impersonally, and to draw 
independent conclusions. 
2.0 Freedom to Teach 
2.1 The faculty member occupies a position of trust in relation both to students and to 
the community. The freedom to teach like freedoms in other areas - must be a 
responsible freedom which in no way implies the freedom to advocate overthrow 
of the government by force, or to mold student opinion in any illegal direction. 
2.2 The issues presented in the classroom should be related to the courses of study 
and to the general education program of the College. The method of presentation 
should encourage critical thinking by the students. 
3.0 Outside Classroom 
3.1 Outside the classroom, a faculty member speaks and acts as a private citizen. The 
role as a teacher is independent of religious and political affiliations and choice of 
community or private activities.  He/she should be aware, however, that the public 
may judge the profession and institution by utterances. 
3.2 The faculty member should at all times exercise appropriate restraint and show 
respect for the opinions of others. Except on those occasions when he/she has 
been specially designated as the representative of the College, every effort should 
be made to indicate that he/she is not an institutional spokesperson when 
presenting a particular viewpoint. 
4.0 Outside Speakers 
4.1 When controversial topics are presented on campus by outside speakers, it may be 
appropriate to take certain steps to expose deception or encourage clear thinking. 
Such action may take the form of requiring that time be reserved at the meeting 
for questions, selected rebuttal speakers or for free debate, or it may take the form 

INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 
 
Controversial Issues R-7142 
Curriculum 2 of 2 
 
of distributing written statements of alternative views. The objective in all such 
cases would be that of supporting the function of the College to develop in 
students an understanding of conflicting points of view, but not to indoctrinate. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 6/30/65 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 1/28/81; 4/21/82 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed:  
Board Policy: P-7142