USE OF SCHOOL FACILITIES BY THE PUBLIC 
 
Use of Outdoor Areas   R-1413 
Civic Center Activities 1 of 4 
 
1.0 General 
1.1 Los Rios Community College District property shall be used only in accordance 
with Federal, State, and local laws and shall not be used for any unlawful activity. 
1.2 All persons on District/College property are required to abide by District/College 
Policies and shall identify themselves upon request to District/College officials 
acting in the performance of their duties. Violation of District/College Policies 
may subject a person to possible legal penalties or may result in District/College 
sanctions. If the person is a student, faculty member, or staff member of the 
District/College, that person may also be subject to District/College disciplinary 
action. 
1.3 Public expression in the form of freedom of speech and advocacy may be 
exercised on District/College property at such times and places and in such a 
manner as is compatible with the use of the property, and that: (a) assures orderly 
conduct; (b) avoids disruption or interference with District/College operations; (c) 
avoids disruption or interference with the ability of the District/College to carry 
out their responsibilities as educational institutions; (d) protects the rights of all 
individuals who use District/College property; (e) protects persons against 
practices that would make them involuntary audiences; and (f) assures the safety 
of all members of the District/College community. 
1.4 Smoking is defined as inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted or 
heated cigar, cigarette, pipe, or any other lighted or heated tobacco or other 
product intended for inhalation, in any matter or in any form.  Smoking also 
includes the use of e-cigarettes. An e-cigarette is any oral device that provides a 
vapor of nicotine or any other substance for inhalation. E-cigarettes do not include 
products approved by the United States Department of Food and Drug 
Administration for medical treatment.  
2.0 Use of Outdoor Areas Open to the Public Generally 
2.1 On District/College outdoor areas open to the public generally, all persons or 
organizations may exercise their constitutionally protected rights of free 
expression, speech, assembly, and worship, and meet and distribute and sell 
noncommercial literature incidental to the exercise of these freedoms. Such 
activities shall be compatible with use and maintenance of the area and the free 
flow of persons and traffic, and shall not interfere with or disrupt the normal 
activities of the District/College property. Interference with District/College 
property entrances or exits is strictly prohibited. 
2.2 Any individual or group wishing to engage in speech activities is requested to 
notify the appropriate College or District Facilities Management department as far 
in advance of the activity as possible. If advance notice has not been made, notice 
of arrival (including location of activity) is required. Notice of arrival should be 
made at the campus Facilities Management department as soon as practical. 

USE OF SCHOOL FACILITIES BY THE PUBLIC 
 
Use of Outdoor Areas   R-1413 
Civic Center Activities 2 of 4 
 
2.2.1 The Facilities Management department should notify campus police, 
custodial department, or other appropriate College departments of any 
non-student or non-College organization speech activities when possible. 
2.3 Organizations/individuals are encouraged to reserve space in advance. Locations 
are filled on a first come, first choice basis. A reservation increases the chance of 
obtaining a particular location. Locations should be chosen to minimize 
interference with the free speech rights of others. Conflicts in location shall be 
addressed to the Facilities Management department. 
2.3.1 Requests for reservation of District/College outdoor areas open to the 
public generally are reviewed and acted upon by Facilities Management 
departments for the respective College or District property. A reservation 
request may be denied if the request is not in accordance with 
District/College Policies and Administrative Regulations. A reservation 
request shall be denied if the circumstances are such that the event will 
present a clear and present danger to the orderly operation of a College or 
the District. In case of a denial of or any conflict of property use, the 
reservation applicant may appeal to President. The President will render a 
decision on the appeal within seven (7) calendar days. 
3.0 Use of All Other Property and Facilities 
3.1 Persons or organizations (including those not affiliated with the District or a 
College) shall be eligible to use District/College facilities (classrooms, athletic 
fields, etc.) as set forth in Administrative Regulations R-1411 (Use of Facilities) 
and R-1412 (Fees for Use of Facilities).   
4.0 Religious or Political Activities 
4.1 As a state instrumentality, the District/Colleges must remain neutral on religious 
and political matters. The District/Colleges cannot sponsor or fund religious or 
political activities, except when authorized by the Los Rios Community College 
District Board of Trustees. 
4.2 Religious or political authorized student organizations shall have access to 
District/College property on the same basis as all other authorized campus 
organizations. See District Policies P-2311 (Student Associations) and P-2312 
(Student Organizations and Activities).  
4.2.1 Authorized student organizations may sponsor and fund religious or 
political activities provided no District/College funds are used to 
underwrite these activities. 
4.3 The name, insignia, seal, or address of the District/Colleges or any of their offices 
or units shall not be used for or in connection with religious or political purposes 
or activities except as consistent with District/College Administrative 
Regulations. 

USE OF SCHOOL FACILITIES BY THE PUBLIC 
 
Use of Outdoor Areas   R-1413 
Civic Center Activities 3 of 4 
 
4.3.1 In correspondence, statements, or other material relating to religious or 
political activities or issues, the District/College title of a faculty or staff 
member shall be used only for identification. If such identification might 
reasonably be construed as implying the support, endorsement, or 
opposition of the District/College with regard to any religious or political 
activity or issue, the identification shall be accompanied by an explicit 
statement that the individual is speaking for himself or herself and not as a 
representative of the District/College or any of its offices or units. 
4.4 Funds: To avoid District/College endorsement of a political candidate, the 
payment of District/College-controlled funds is prohibited to individuals who 
have declared their intention to run for elective office at the time a contract is 
made. This prohibition covers contracting for payment of fees, honoraria, or travel 
expenses.  
4.4.1 This prohibition does not extend to members of the Board of Trustees who 
have declared their intention to run for election as members of the Board 
of Trustees or other elective office. Such Board of Trustees members may 
continue to receive their customary compensation, reimbursement 
expenses, and other fees, compensation, or money due to them for the 
performance of their duties as elected members of the Board of Trustees. 
Section 4.4 shall apply in all other respects. 
4.5 Faculty, Students, and Staff. The District/Colleges recognize, support, and shall 
not abridge the constitutional rights of faculty, students, and staff to participate, 
either as individuals or as members of groups, in the political process of 
supporting candidates for public office or any other political activity. The District 
Policies above in no way constitute prohibitions on the right of any individual or 
group in the District/College community to express political views. 
5.0 Amplified Sound Permit 
5.1 The following Administrative Regulations have been developed to assure that 
sound at events held on District/College property is maintained at a reasonable 
level and is not disruptive to District/College activities or communities. A permit 
must be approved by the Facilities Management department for outdoor use of 
amplified sound. Permits will not be approved if the sound may interfere with 
classes, the orderly administration of the District/College, or reasonably disturb 
District/College operations, or community residents.  
5.2 The level of sound must be limited to reach only the immediate audience. 
Speakers must be positioned carefully in order to prevent sound from disturbing 
persons not in the immediate area. Atmospheric conditions, the surrounding 
terrain and the buildings can greatly influence the effect of sound. The set-up of 
speakers should be carefully checked before each event and monitored 
occasionally during the event by the permit holder. Sound checks must be 
conducted only during the hours sound is allowed. 

USE OF SCHOOL FACILITIES BY THE PUBLIC 
 
Use of Outdoor Areas   R-1413 
Civic Center Activities 4 of 4 
 
5.3 Outdoor use of sound is generally permitted in areas designated by each College 
and in accordance with the conditions enumerated; all other areas by exception 
only. A list of the designated areas for each College shall be available at the 
Facilities Management department. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 11/28/05 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 4/26/10; 4/27/15; 10/17/16 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 10/17/16 
Board Policy: P-1413