INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 
 
Distance Education  R-7145 
Curriculum 1 of 3 
 
1.0 Course Schedules  
1.1 Online, hybrid, and interactive television courses shall be identified in the class 
schedule. Information about how and where students can get assistance with 
distance education courses shall be published in the Los Rios Community College 
District Catalogs and be made readily available on the Colleges’ websites. 
2.0 Access for Students with Disabilities 
2.1 The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, section 508 of the Rehabilitation 
Act of 1973, and the California Government Code, section 11135 all require that 
accessibility for persons with disabilities be provided in the development, 
procurement, maintenance, or use of electronic or information technology by a 
community college district using any source of state funds. The Los Rios 
Community College District and each of its Colleges shall follow all accessibility 
requirements in all distance education courses from the time separate approval is 
granted through the development and implementation of all distance education 
programs. 
3.0 Student Authentication 
3.1 At a minimum, to ensure that the student who registers in a course or program is 
the same student who participates in and completes the course or program and 
receives the academic credit, the College shall use one or more of the following 
methods to authenticate or verify a student’s identity: 
3.1.1 a secure login and pass code; 
3.1.2 a proctored exam;  
3.1.3 the student ID and password authentication into the District’s course 
management system; 
3.1.4 a mandatory check-in and identity challenge process for all hybrid and 
fully online courses; 
3.1.5 faculty use of an authorized platform for course delivery. 
4.0 District-Wide Learning Management System Platform(s) 
4.1 The District shall provide the Colleges with at least one (1) approved District-
wide learning management system platform for all online course sections and the 
online portions of hybrid course sections. The platform(s) shall allow the Colleges 
to meet the following federal, state, and accreditation requirements: access for 

INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 
 
Distance Education  R-7145 
Curriculum 2 of 3 
 
students with disabilities, student authentication, College administrative oversight 
of the courses being taught, tools for regular substantive and effective faculty-
initiated contact with students, and FERPA protections for student data. The 
District shall be responsible for maintaining the approved platform and ensuring 
system patches and updates are applied in a timely fashion. 
4.1.1 District-wide learning management system platform shall be 
recommended by a learning management system work group that includes 
faculty representatives from the District Academic Senate, District 
Curriculum Coordinating Committee, District Matriculation and Student 
Success Committee, Education Technology Committee, and LRCFT. The 
work group shall also have representation from College Administration, 
the District Information Technology Department, and District Fiscal 
Services. Decisions regarding the District-wide learning management 
system are academic and professional matters for which the administration 
shall rely primarily upon the advice and judgement of the District 
Academic Senate.  
4.1.2 Proposals for major District-wide learning management system platform 
upgrades or full replacement shall also be recommended by the learning 
management system work group. 
4.1.3 Any College may apply to the learning management system work group to 
recommend additional District-wide learning management system 
platforms. 
5.0 Professional Development 
5.1 The Colleges shall provide distance education professional development support 
to faculty teaching or preparing to teach in distance education modalities. 
Professional development offerings will be designed to provide faculty with 
knowledge of effective distance education teaching practices, including how to 
meet federal, state, and accreditation distance education requirements.   
6.0 State Authorization 
6.1 For those students who reside out of state and take distance education courses at 
the Colleges, the College shall: 
6.1.1 identify students who reside outside of California and who are taking only 
online courses; and 

INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM 
 
Distance Education  R-7145 
Curriculum 3 of 3 
 
6.1.2 contact those state agencies or state-approved consortia that handle 
authorization to practice and determine what the College or District will 
need to do to serve non-resident students in online courses; and 
6.1.3 establish agreements with appropriate states or state-approved consortia, 
or, where infeasible to obtain authorization to provide instruction in that 
state, cease offering instruction to the student in the foreign state. 
7.0 Reporting Requirements  
7.1 For distance education courses conducted using the District-wide learning 
management system platform, the District shall: 
7.1.1 maintain records and report data through the Chancellor’s Office 
Management Information System on the number of students and faculty 
participating in new courses or sections of established courses offered 
through distance education;  
7.1.2 report required data to the State Chancellor’s Office and various regulating 
agencies respecting their definitions of distance education; 
7.1.3 provide to the Los Rios Community College District Board of Trustees a 
report on all distance education activity at least every two (2) years. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 4/27/15 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 12/12/16 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 12/12/16 
Board Policy: P-7145