EMPLOYEE DISCIPLINE 
 
Severe Disciplinary Actions R-6914 
Discipline Procedures 1 of 2 
 
1.0 Initiation of Recommendation for Severe Disciplinary Action 
1.1 A recommendation to impose discipline more severe than a letter of reprimand 
shall be made by the administrative officer to the Director, Personnel Services. 
The written correspondence shall contain detailed reasons for the 
recommendations. 
1.2 If the Director, Personnel Services finds, after investigation, that the reasons given 
justify the action recommended, the employee will be given a written Notice of 
Intent to Discipline. 
2.0 Notice of Intent to Discipline 
2.1 The written Notice of Intent to Discipline shall include the following: 
2.1.1 a description of the proposed Intent to Discipline and the effective date; 
2.1.2 a statement of the specific acts or omissions upon which the action is 
based; a statement of the cause for the action taken and, if it is claimed 
that the employee has violated a rule or regulation, such rule or regulation 
will be quoted or referenced; 
2.1.3 a statement of the employee's right to a pre-disciplinary meeting on such 
charge; 
2.1.4 a statement that the employee has five (5) working days to request a pre-
disciplinary meeting; 
2.1.5 a statement that the employee may represent himself/herself at the pre-
disciplinary meeting or be represented by an attorney or any other person 
of the employee's choice. In all pre-disciplinary meetings, the employee 
may be represented by a union or association representative. 
2.1.6 a request for hearing form. 
3.0 Administrative Leave 
3.1 If the Chancellor deems it is in the best interests of the District, the Chancellor 
may place an employee on administrative leave prior to the pre-disciplinary 
meeting. 
3.1.1 Administrative Leave shall be effective when a written notice of 
administrative leave by the Chancellor is served upon the employee. 
3.1.2 The employee shall remain in full paid status during the period of 
administrative leave. 

EMPLOYEE DISCIPLINE 
 
Severe Disciplinary Actions R-6914 
Discipline Procedures 2 of 2 
 
3.1.3 The employee must remain available to participate in administrative 
procedures. 
3.1.4 Administrative leave status will terminate when the action becomes final. 
4.0 Pre-disciplinary Meeting 
4.1 As set forth in the Notice of Intent to Discipline, the employee may request a pre-
disciplinary meeting with the Chancellor. The pre-disciplinary meeting is an 
informal, nonevidentiary meeting. The Chancellor will issue a decision within ten 
(10) working days of the meeting. If the decision is to impose discipline, the 
decision will include a statement of the discipline and the right to appeal.  
5.0 Imposition of Discipline and Appeal 
5.1 Within ten (10) working days of mailing written notice of the Chancellor's 
decision, the employee may file a request with the Chancellor for a hearing 
pursuant to Board Policy (P-6915). Failure to file a request for a hearing within 
ten (10) working days of the mailing shall constitute a waiver of any right to a 
hearing. 
5.2 If the employee fails to appeal, the Board shall act upon the Chancellor's decision 
at a closed session of the Board. The Board's action shall be final. 
6.0 Abandonment of Position 
If an employee abandons a position, the employee shall not be entitled to a pre-
disciplinary meeting provided, however, that the District shall provide written notice of 
its intent to terminate at least ten (10) days before the effective date of the termination. 
(Cross-Reference P-6915) (Formerly P-6633) 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 10/67 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 7/71; 12/3/75; 10/15/80; 10/20/82; 4/28/97 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed:  
Board Policy: P-6914