EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Selection and Recruitment: 
Management and Confidential 
R-9121 
Recruitment and Appointment 1 of 4 
 
1.0 Job Description 
1.1 For each management position to be filled, a job description shall be updated or 
developed by the supervisor of the management employee and the Director, 
Human Resources, and approved by the Chancellor. Job descriptions for Los Rios 
Community College District Officer positions shall be submitted to the Los Rios 
Community College District Board of Trustees for approval. Job descriptions for 
other management positions shall be provided to the Board of Trustees for review. 
1.2 The criteria used to assess candidates for a position shall be satisfaction of the 
requirements outlined in the job description by considering the education, 
experience, and ability of the candidates. 
2.0 Opportunity for Lateral Transfer 
2.1 Upon approval by the Chancellor that a vacant Board of Trustees-approved 
management position be filled, the Human Resources Office will notify 
appropriate District managers. 
2.1.1 Announcement of the opportunity for a lateral transfer, including a job 
description and qualification criteria, will be sent to all managers at the 
same level as the position opening. Not less than seven (7) calendar days 
should be allowed for a response. 
2.1.2 Questions regarding open positions should be directed to the Human 
Resources Office. 
3.0 Building an Applicant Pool 
3.1 In addition to posting on the District website, efforts will be made to post to other 
web resources and/or provide links to the District site and post notices in 
publications to provide for diverse and inclusive applicant pools. 
3.2 Open positions shall be advertised broadly in order to insure that interested 
members of underrepresented groups are included in the qualified applicant pool 
for the position. “In house” or “promotional only” recruitment shall be used only 
in case of documented “business necessity.” 
3.3 The District shall be identified as an equal opportunity employer. 
3.4 Full-time management positions should be advertised for no less than forty (40) 
days, and confidential positions for no less than two (2) weeks. 
4.0 Qualifications 
4.1 Applicants and employees with felony convictions and applicants or employees 
that are disqualified for service under Education Code, sections 87010, 87011, 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Selection and Recruitment: 
Management and Confidential 
R-9121 
Recruitment and Appointment 2 of 4 
 
87405, or 88022 shall be individually evaluated based on the requirements of the 
position following factors: 
4.1.1 Nature and Gravity of the Offense(s). The Human Resources Office shall 
evaluate felony conviction(s) to determine the nature and severity of the 
offense(s) or conduct. This evaluation may take into account the harm 
caused by the crime, the elements of the crime, and the severity of the 
crime. A more severe crime would tend towards disqualifying the 
applicant. 
4.1.2 Time That Has Passed Since the Offense(s) or Conviction(s). The Human 
Resources Office shall evaluate the amount of time that has passed since 
the most recent offense or conviction and any prior offense(s). A single 
offense or a last offense committed more than ten (10) years prior to the 
application date suggests an applicant will not recidivate. Subsequent 
employment history and efforts at rehabilitation is relevant to this inquiry. 
Crimes committed more recently would tend towards disqualifying the 
applicant. 
4.1.3 Nature of the Job Held or Sought. In light of the first two factors, the 
Director of Human Resources shall examine the nature of the duties and 
essential functions of the job held or sought to determine if excluding the 
applicant is consistent with business necessity. Consideration may be 
given to the location of the job and the persons the applicant will come 
into contact with in the job. For example, convictions of property, theft, or 
larceny crimes tend toward disqualifying applicants for positions of trust 
or positions that control money or property. Convictions for violent 
felonies would tend towards disqualifying applicants from positions that 
require contact with students, staff, or the public. 
4.1.4 Applicants with disqualifying convictions shall be notified that they have 
been screened out due to a felony conviction and provided with an 
opportunity to demonstrate that they should not screened out due to the 
applicant’s particular circumstances. The Human Resources Office shall 
review this information prior to making a final decision. 
5.0 Certifying the Composition of the Qualified Applicant Pool 
5.1 The Associate Vice Chancellor, Human Resources will review applications before 
they are forwarded to the College (or District Office division) and certify that 
qualified underrepresented applicants are included in the group.   
5.2 The Human Resources Office will maintain applicant flow data showing the total 
number of qualified applicants for each open position as well as the number of 
women and members of underrepresented groups. 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Selection and Recruitment: 
Management and Confidential 
R-9121 
Recruitment and Appointment 3 of 4 
 
6.0 Physical Examinations 
6.1 Tuberculosis Clearance 
6.1.1 No person shall be initially employed by the Los Rios Community College 
District without appropriate tuberculosis clearance unless otherwise 
excepted by law. (Ed. Code, § 87408.6) 
6.1.1.1 Persons employed must provide documentation indicating they are 
free of infectious tuberculosis risk factors—or they are free of 
infectious tuberculosis as indicated by an intradermal tuberculin 
test, an Interferon Gamma Release Assay (IGRA) blood test and/or 
a chest X-ray (CXR)—initially upon hire and every four (4) years 
thereafter. The examination shall occur within sixty (60) days of 
initial employment. 
6.1.1.2 Results of such assessments, tests or X-rays must indicate that the 
person employed is free from evidence of active tuberculosis.  
6.1.1.3 The provisions of the paragraph above shall not apply to any 
employee who files an affidavit stating adherence to the faith or 
teachings of any well-recognized religious sect, denomination, or 
organization which, in accordance with its creed, tenets, or 
principles, depends for healing upon prayer in the practice of 
religion, and that to the best of the employee’s knowledge and 
belief, the employee is free from active tuberculosis. 
6.1.1.4 If at any time there should be probable cause to believe that such 
affiant is afflicted with active tuberculosis, the individual may be 
excluded from service until the Los Rios Community College 
District Board of Trustees is satisfied that the employee is not so 
afflicted. 
6.1.1.5 An employee transferring to the District from another community 
college district, private or parochial elementary school, secondary 
school or nursery school can satisfy requirement of section 6.1.1.1 
by producing a tuberculosis clearance completed within the past 
four (4) years or by verification of prior employer that the 
employee has a tuberculosis clearance on file within the past four 
(4) years. 
7.0 Employee Health Clearance 
7.1 The District may require a medical examination to ascertain a prospective 
employee’s ability to perform essential functions of the position after an offer of 
employment has been made.  

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Selection and Recruitment: 
Management and Confidential 
R-9121 
Recruitment and Appointment 4 of 4 
 
7.1.1 Such examination will be conducted by a physician designated by the 
District. 
7.1.2 An employee’s own physician may be included in the employee’s 
examination procedure. 
7.2 An employee examined pursuant to Section 6.1 above shall obtain evidence of 
freedom from health problems which would be detrimental to the performance of 
essential job functions. 
8.0 Payment for Tuberculosis and/or Health Clearances 
8.1 Tuberculosis clearance for employees (other than newly-hired) will be reimbursed 
by the District up to $20 if the employee obtains clearance from his/her personal 
health care provider or a provider from a District-designated health center by any 
of the following means: a risk assessment, an intradermal tuberculin test, an 
Interferon Gamma Release Assay (IGRA) blood test, and/or a chest X-ray (CXR). 
8.2 Tuberculosis risk assessments and intradermal tuberculin tests are free at campus 
health centers for existing and newly hired employees. 
8.3 When an employee is required, as a condition of continued employment, to obtain 
a medical or physical examination, the District shall pay the costs of such 
examination upon written authorization from the Human Resources department. 
 (Formerly R-9115) 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 2/21/78 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 10/31/78; 2/18/81; 6/16/82; 2/21/90; 10/26/98; 8/25/03; 1/22/07; 
10/22/12; 5/13/15; 4/25/16; 3/27/17 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 3/27/17 
Board Policy: P-9121