STUDENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
Service Animals R-2426 
Non-Discrimination 1 of 8 
 
1.0 Definitions 
1.1 A “Service Animal” is any dog or a miniature horse that is individually trained to 
do work or perform tasks for the benefit of an individual with a disability, 
including a physical, sensory, psychiatric, intellectual, or other mental disability. 
Other species of animals, whether wild or domestic, trained or untrained, are not 
Service Animals for the purposes of this definition. The work or tasks performed 
by a Service Animal must be directly related to the handler’s disability. Examples 
of work or tasks include, but are not limited to, assisting individuals who are blind 
or have low vision with navigation and other tasks, alerting individuals who are 
deaf or hard of hearing to the presence of people or sounds, providing non-violent 
protection or rescue work, pulling a wheelchair, assisting an individual during a 
seizure, alerting individuals to the presence of allergens, retrieving items such as 
medicine or the telephone, providing physical support and assistance with balance 
and stability to individuals with mobility disabilities, and helping persons with 
psychiatric and neurological disabilities by preventing or interrupting impulsive 
or destructive behaviors. (28 C.F.R. § 35.104(b)(7); Cal. Civ. Code § 54.2.) If 
there is a question as to whether an animal is a Service Animal, contact the Vice 
President of Student Services or the Vice President of Administration, or 
designee. 
1.1.1 Types of Service Dogs:  A service dog is a dog that has been specially 
trained as a “Guide Dog”, “Hearing Dog”, “Ssig Dog”, “Seizure Dog”, or 
“Assistance Dog”.  
1.1.2 A “guide dog” is a dog carefully trained to serve as a travel tool by 
persons with severe visual impairments or who are blind.  
1.1.3 A “hearing dog” is a dog that has been trained to alert a person with 
significant hearing loss or who is deaf when a sound (e.g., a knock on the 
door) occurs.  
1.1.4 A “Ssig dog” is a dog trained to assist a person with autism. The dog alerts 
the person to distracting repetitive movements common among those with 
autism, allowing the person to stop the movement (e.g., hand flapping).  A 
person with autism may have problems with sensory input and need the 
same support services from a dog that a dog might give to a person who is 
blind or deaf.  
1.1.5 A “seizure dog” is a dog trained to assist a person with various types of 
seizure disorders; how the dog serves the person depends on the person’s 
needs.  The dog may stand guard over the person during a seizure, or the 
dog may go for help.  A very few dogs have somehow learned to predict a 
seizure and warn the person in advance.  
1.1.6 An “assistance dog” is a dog that has been specially trained to assist a 
person who has mobility or health impairment.  Types of duties the dog 
may perform include carrying, fetching, opening doors, ringing doorbells, 
activating elevator buttons, steadying a person while walking, helping a 

STUDENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
Service Animals R-2426 
Non-Discrimination 2 of 8 
 
person up after the person falls, pulling a wheelchair, etc. 
1.2 A “therapy animal” is an animal with good temperament and disposition, and who 
has reliable, predictable behavior, selected to visit people with disabilities or 
people who are experiencing the frailties of aging or confinement as a therapy 
tool.  The animal may be incorporated as an integral part of a treatment process. A 
therapy animal does not assist an individual with a disability in the activities of 
daily living. The therapy animal does not accompany a person with a disability all 
the time.  Thus, a therapy animal is not covered by laws protecting Service 
Animals and does not have the rights given to Service Animals. 
1.3 A “Partner” is a person with a verifiable disability who has a Service Animal. 
1.4 A “Handler” is a person without a disability who has a Service Animal.  
1.5 A “Team” consists of a Partner and his or her Service Animal or a Handler and 
his or her Service Animal.  The twosome works as a cohesive Team in 
accomplishing the tasks of everyday living.  
1.6 A “Trainee” is an animal undergoing training to become a Service Animal. A 
Trainee must be housebroken and fully socialized. To be fully socialized means 
the animal shall not, except under rare occasions, bark, yip, growl, howl, or make 
any type of disruptive noises; shall have a good temperament and disposition; 
shall not show fear; shall not be upset or agitated when it sees another animal; and 
shall not be aggressive.  
1.7 A “Pet” is a domestic animal kept for pleasure or companionship. 
1.8 A “potentially dangerous dog” means:  (a) any dog which has, when unprovoked, 
engaged in any behavior that requires a defensive action by any person to prevent 
bodily injury when the person and the dog are off the property of the owner or 
keeper of the dog; or (b) any dog which, when unprovoked, bites a person; or (c) 
any dog which, when unprovoked has killed, seriously bitten, inflicted injury, or 
otherwise caused injury to a domestic animal off the property of the owner or 
keeper of the dog.   
2.0 General Rule for Service Animals, Therapy Animals, Trainees and 
Pets 
2.1 Animals are not permitted in District/College buildings and/or on District/College 
property except for (a) Service Animals and Trainees meeting the requirements of 
section 4.4 below; and (b) animals used in the educational programs of the 
District and (c) animals participating in permitted events focused on animals (e.g. 
dog agility trials) in accordance with the District’s Facility Use Policies and 
Regulations (P/R-1410). 
2.2 Service Animals meeting the requirements of section 4.4 below are permitted in 
District/College buildings.  (28 C.F.R. §§ 35.130(a); 130(b)(7); Cal. Civ. Code § 
54.2.) 

STUDENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
Service Animals R-2426 
Non-Discrimination 3 of 8 
 
2.3 Trainees meeting the requirements of section 4.4 below are permitted in 
District/College buildings. A Trainee shall be on a leash and under the control of 
the Handler at all times, who may or may not have a disability.  If the Trainee 
begins to show improper behavior, the Handler shall act immediately to correct 
the animal or shall remove the animal from District/College property. 
2.4 Therapy Animals and/or Pets are not permitted in District/College facilities and/or 
on District/College property.  Permission may be granted only by the Vice 
President of Student Services, Vice President of Instruction or the Vice President 
of Administration for a Therapy Animal or Pet to be in a District/College facility 
for a specific reason at a specific time (e.g., a pet dog or cat is used as a 
demonstration tool in a zoology class, speech class, etc.). 
3.0 Responsibilities of Faculty, Staff, and Students 
3.1 Faculty, staff, and students shall allow a Service Animal or Trainee meeting the 
requirements of this Administrative Regulation to accompany their Partner at all 
times on campus, except where Service Animals are specifically prohibited.  (See 
Section 6.0 below). 
3.2 Faculty, staff, and students should not pet a Service Animal or Trainee.  Petting a 
Service Animal or Trainee when the animal is working distracts the animal from 
the task at hand. 
3.3 Faculty, staff, and students should not feed a Service Animal or Trainee.  The 
Service Animal or Trainee may have specific dietary requirements.  Unusual food 
or food at an unexpected time may cause the animal to become ill.  
3.4 Faculty, staff, and students shall not deliberately startle a Service Animal or 
Trainee. 
3.5 Faculty, staff, and students shall not separate or attempt to separate a 
Partner/Handler from his or her Service Animal or Trainee.  
4.0 Requirements of Service Animals and Their Partner/Handler  
4.1 Vaccinations:  The Service Animal or Trainee must be immunized against 
diseases common to that type of animal.  Dogs must have had the general 
maintenance vaccine series, including but not limited to vaccinations against 
rabies, distemper, and parvovirus.  All vaccinations must be current.  
4.2 Licensing:  All Service Animals and Trainees shall be appropriately licensed. The 
City of Sacramento and County of Sacramento ordinances (Sacramento City 
Code, §9.44.490; Sacramento County Ordinance 8.24.010), following state law 
require all dogs be licensed by the time they reach 4 months of age.  Guide dogs, 
hearing dogs, dogs serving mobility-impaired persons, Trainees, and other Service 
Animals may receive the license at no cost.  (Sacramento City Code, § 9.44.510; 
Sacramento County Ordinance § 8.2.4.030).  

STUDENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
Service Animals R-2426 
Non-Discrimination 4 of 8 
 
4.3 Health: All Service Animals and Trainees must be in good health, displaying no 
skin, eye, ear, or nose irritation, infection, or discharge, unless the animal has a 
release from a veterinarian showing the animal free of any health risk to the 
public. The animal must be free of fleas and external parasites. 
4.4 Leash and Control: All Service Animals and Trainees must be on a leash at all 
times unless the service the Service Animal or Trainee performs requires them to 
be off leash or the Partner’s disability prevents the use of these devices. Where 
the Service Animal or Trainee is off leash, the Partner/Handler must maintain 
control of the animal through voice, signal or other effective controls. The 
Partner/Handler must be in control of the animal at all times.  The care and 
supervision of a Service Animal or Trainee is solely the responsibility of its 
Partner/Handler.  The Partner/Handler is also liable for any damages done to the 
premises or facilities by his or her Service Animal or Trainee.  (Cal. Civ. Code, § 
54.2.) 
4.5 Cleanup: The Partner/Handler must clean up after the animal defecates.  The 
Partner/Handler must always carry equipment sufficient to clean up the animal’s 
feces whenever the animal and Partner/Handler are on District/College property.  
4.6 Service Animal Registration: A Partner/Handler who is a District disabled student 
who wishes to bring a Service Animal onto the campus is requested, but not 
required, to register his/her animal with the Vice President of Student Services or 
Vice President of Administration or designee. Employees and other 
Partners/Handlers who wish to bring Service Animals onto the campus are 
requested, but not required, to register their animals with the Vice President of 
Student Services or the Vice President of Administration.  Visitors with Service 
Animals are requested, but not required, to check in with the Vice President of 
Student Services or the Vice President of Administration.  
4.7 Trainee Registration: A Partner/Handler who is a District disabled student who 
wishes to bring a Trainee onto the campus must register his/her animal with the 
Vice President of Student Services or Vice President of Administration or 
designee. Employees and other Partners/Handlers who wish to bring Trainees 
onto the campus must register their animals with the Vice President of Student 
Services or the Vice President of Administration.  Visitors with Trainees must 
check in with the Vice President of Student Services or the Vice President of 
Administration 
5.0 When a Partner/Handler Can Be Asked to Remove a Service 
Animal/Trainee from District/College Property  
5.1 Disruption: The Partner/Handler of an animal that is unruly or disruptive (e.g., 
barking other than warning or protection, running around, bringing attention to 
itself) may be asked to remove the animal from District/College property.  If the 
improper behavior happens repeatedly, the Partner/Handler may be told not to 
bring the animal onto District/College property until the Partner/Handler takes 
significant steps to mitigate the behavior.  Mitigation can include, but is not 

STUDENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
Service Animals R-2426 
Non-Discrimination 5 of 8 
 
limited to, muzzling a barking animal, refresher training for both the animal and 
the Partner/Handler, or providing proof of additional certified training from a state 
licensed facility.  
5.2 Health: Service Animals or Trainees that are ill should not be taken into public 
areas.  A Partner/Handler with an ill animal may be asked to leave 
District/College property.  
5.3 Uncleanliness: Partners/Handlers with animals that are unclean, noisome and/or 
bedraggled may be asked to leave District/College property.  An animal that 
becomes wet or muddy, but is otherwise clean, should be considered a clean 
animal.  Animals that shed in the spring sometimes may look bedraggled.  If the 
animal in question is well groomed, consider the animal tidy even though its 
spring coat is uneven and messy-appearing or it has become wet from weather or 
weather-related incidents.  
5.4 Dangerous:  Any Service Animal or Trainee that is declared a “potentially 
dangerous dog” by a Vice President of Student Services, Vice President of 
Instruction, Vice President of Administration or campus public safety officer may 
be excluded from the District/College property. 
5.5 Requests to a Partner/Handler to remove a Service Animal or Trainee from 
District/College property should be made by a Vice President of Student Services, 
Vice President of Instruction, Vice President of Administration or campus public 
safety officer. When a Service Animal or Trainee disrupts a classroom, faculty 
may ask the Partner/Handler to remove the Service Animal from the class for up 
to two (2) sessions pursuant to P-2441 and R-2441. 
6.0 Areas Off Limits to Service Animals 
6.1 Mechanical Rooms/Custodial Closets:  Mechanical rooms, such as boiler rooms, 
equipment rooms, electric closets, elevator control rooms, and custodial closets 
are off-limits to Service Animals and Trainees.  The machinery and/or chemicals 
in these rooms may be harmful.  
6.2 Areas Where Protective Gear is Necessary: Any room where protective gear is 
worn is off-limits to Service Animals and Trainees.  Examples impacting students 
include the foundry, glass laboratory, wood and metal shops, photographic lab, 
and chemistry or biology labs.  
6.3 Areas Where There is a Danger to the Service Animal or Trainee: Any room, 
including a classroom, where there are sharp metal cuttings or other sharp objects 
on the floor or protruding from a surface; where there is hot material on the floor 
(e.g., molten metal or glass); where there is a high level of dust; or where there is 
moving machinery is off-limits to all Service Animals and Trainees.  
6.3.1 Exceptions  
6.3.1.1 The Vice President of Instruction, in consultation with the faculty 

STUDENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
Service Animals R-2426 
Non-Discrimination 6 of 8 
 
member, may authorize opening a laboratory to Service Animals 
and Trainees.  
6.3.1.2 A faculty member in a classroom or laboratory with moving 
equipment may grant permission to an individual Service Animal 
or Trainee and Partner/Handler Team to enter the research 
laboratory, classroom, or teaching laboratory with moving 
machinery.  Admission for each Team will be granted or denied on 
a case-by-case basis.  The final decision shall be made based on 
the nature of machinery and the best interest of the Service Animal 
and Trainee.  Example: The machinery in a classroom may have 
moving parts at a height such that the tail of a large dog could 
easily be caught in it; which is a valid reason for keeping large 
dogs out.  However, a very small hearing dog may be shorter than 
any moving part and, therefore, considered for admission to the 
classroom.  
6.3.1.3 Access to other designated off-limits areas may be granted on a 
case-by-case basis by a Vice President of Instruction, Vice 
President of Student Services or a Vice President of 
Administration.  
6.3.1.3.1 To be granted an Exception: A student Partner/Handler 
who wants his or her Service Animal or Trainee to be 
granted admission to an off-limits area should contact 
the Vice President of Student Services. Any non-
student Partner/Handler, including an employee, who 
wants his or her Service Animal or Trainee to be 
granted admission to an off-limits area should contact 
the Vice President of Instruction, Vice President of 
Student Services or the Vice President of 
Administration for a disability accommodation form.  
The Partner/Handler should take the form to the 
appropriate Dean, Division Chair, or faculty member 
for his/her signature.  This form will remain in the 
student’s file in DSPS or on file with the Vice President 
of Student Services, as appropriate, for the current 
semester only. 
6.3.1.3.2 The District will work with a Partner/Handler whose 
Service Animal or Trainee has been excluded for an 
off-limits area to otherwise reasonably accommodate 
the Partner/Handler’s needs.  
7.0 Evaluation Procedures  
7.1 The College’s Vice President of Student Services, Vice President of Instruction or 
Vice President of Administration or designee must determine whether the Service 

STUDENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
Service Animals R-2426 
Non-Discrimination 7 of 8 
 
Animal meets the definitions of a Service Animal. Where the service performed is 
not obvious, the Vice President of Student Services, Vice President of Instruction 
or Vice President of Administration may inquire whether the Service Animal is 
required by the individual because of his/her disability(ies) and what tasks or 
services the animal can perform.  If the animal cannot perform the identified task 
or service, the District/College may exclude the animal from its facilities and 
campuses.  
7.2 The District/College shall analyze whether the presence of the Service Animal 
would actually have a significant effect upon the service, program, or activity 
involved.  If the District/College determines that the use of the Service Animal 
causes a fundamental alteration in District/College services, programs, or 
activities, the District/College may exclude the animal from its facilities and 
campuses. (28 C.F.R. § 130 (b)(7).)  This determination must be made in writing. 
7.3 The District/College shall determine whether the presence of a particular Service 
Animal or Trainee poses a significant risk to the health or safety of other persons 
that cannot be eliminated by a modification of policies, practices, or procedures, 
or by the provision of auxiliary aids or services.  In doing so the District/College 
must make an individualized assessment based on reasonable judgment that relies 
on current medical knowledge or on the best available objective evidence to 
determine the probability that the potential injury will actually occur.  If the 
District/College determines that the presence of the Service Animal or Trainee 
does pose a direct threat to the health or safety of persons participating in 
District/College service, programs, or activities, the District/College may exclude 
the animal from its facilities and campuses. (28 C.F.R. § 36.208.)  
7.4 If the District/College determines that the use of a particular Service Animal will 
not be permitted, the Vice President of Instruction, Vice President of Student 
Services or the Vice President of Administration will take the following steps to 
ensure that the individual with a disability is not discriminated against on the 
basis of that disability:  
7.4.1 Determine whether alternative modifications to District/College policies, 
practices, or procedures can be made to permit the individual to participate 
in District/College services, programs, or activities. 
7.4.2 Determine whether academic adjustments or auxiliary aids may be used by 
a student with a disability to permit his/her participation in 
District/College services, programs, or activities.  
7.5 An individual with a disability who is denied the use of a Service Animal may 
appeal to the President of the campus or the Vice Chancellor of Education and 
Technology.   
8.0 Grievances  
8.1 Anyone dissatisfied with a decision made concerning a Service Animal should 
refer to the Discrimination Complaint Procedures (P-2423/R-2423). 

STUDENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
Service Animals R-2426 
Non-Discrimination 8 of 8 
 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 2/28/11 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 3/12/12; 12/12/16 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 12/12/16 
Board Policy: P-2113