EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Recruitment, Selection and Appointment: 
Regular and Long-Term Temporary Positions 
R-6122 
Recruitment and Appointment 1 of 5 
 
1.0 Job Announcements 
1.1 Job announcements shall clearly state the job classification and shall set forth 
those skills which are necessary for job performance, including the required 
training and experience related to those skills. Only bona fide occupational 
qualifications shall be included in job announcements. 
1.2 The Los Rios Community College District shall be identified as an Equal 
Opportunity Employer. 
2.0 Building an Applicant Pool 
2.1 Job announcements shall be sent to: 
2.1.1 Los Rios Community College District Board of Trustees; 
2.1.2 College Faculty (for faculty openings) and Staff (for classified openings); 
2.1.3 Exclusive Representative of the bargaining unit with the opening; 
2.1.4 College and university placement departments throughout the state; 
2.1.5 Local School Districts; 
2.1.6 Ethnic Minority Organizations; 
2.1.7 Women’s Organizations; 
2.1.8 Employment development agencies and similar employment agencies; 
2.1.9 Agencies for persons with disabilities;  
2.2 To ensure that members of underrepresented groups are notified of available 
positions, the District may: 
2.2.1 Advertise in journals and newspapers with historically underrepresented 
group readership as well as in newspapers having wide general circulation; 
2.2.2 Contact members of historically underrepresented groups working in or 
attending predominantly minority or women’s colleges; 
2.2.3 Notify individuals with applications in the appropriate subject matter 
applicant file to discover their interest in applying for the specific position 
opening; 
2.2.4 Contact members of underrepresented groups seeking work in business 
and industry; 
2.2.5 Use professional registries and data banks, specifically those with listings 
of historically underrepresented group members; 
2.2.6 Consult with local minority and women’s organizations and agencies 
regarding recruiting efforts. 
2.3 Classified positions should be advertised for not less than two (2) weeks. 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Recruitment, Selection and Appointment: 
Regular and Long-Term Temporary Positions 
R-6122 
Recruitment and Appointment 2 of 5 
 
2.4 All applicants shall be given an opportunity to identify the historically 
underrepresented group to which they belong for the purpose of monitoring 
employment practices. (Title 5, § 53023) This confidential information will 
remain in the Human Resources Office for research purposes. 
3.0 Certifying the Composition of the Qualified Applicant Pool 
3.1 The Director, Human Resources will review applications before they are 
forwarded to the College (or District Office division) where the position opening 
exists and certify that qualified applicants are among those included in the group. 
If extensive recruitment efforts have not produced the expected representation of 
members of historically underrepresented groups for a specific position, the 
Director, Human Resources shall so state. 
3.2 The District Human Resources Office will maintain applicant flow data showing 
the total number of qualified applicants for each open position as well as the 
number of underrepresented and disabled group applicants. 
4.0 Selection of Applicants 
4.1 The selection of applicants for an open position may include consideration of any 
or all of the following: 
4.1.1 Skill and performance tests: 
4.1.2 Verification of prior employment with references from former employers; 
4.1.3 Evidence of education, training, and skill proficiency; 
4.1.4 Completed application. 
4.2 An eligibility list of applicants who are among those best qualified and presently 
available for employment shall be prepared. 
4.2.1 Arrangements for employment interviews will be coordinated through the 
appropriate administrator/supervisor at the specific District/College 
location. A copy of the finalized interview schedule will be forwarded to 
Human Resources. 
4.3 Applicants and employees with felony convictions and applicants and 
employees that are disqualified for service under Education Code, sections 
87010, 87011, 87405, or 88022 shall be individually evaluated based on 
the requirements of the position following factors: 
4.3.1 Nature and Gravity of the Offense(s). The Human Resources 
Office shall evaluate felony conviction(s) to determine the nature 
and severity of the offense(s) or conduct. This evaluation may take 
into account the harm caused by the crime, the elements of the 
crime, and the severity of the crime. A more severe crime would 
tend towards disqualifying the applicant.   

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Recruitment, Selection and Appointment: 
Regular and Long-Term Temporary Positions 
R-6122 
Recruitment and Appointment 3 of 5 
 
4.3.2 Time That Has Passed Since the Offense(s) or Conviction(s).  The 
Human Resources Office shall evaluate the amount of time that has 
passed since the most recent offense or conviction and any prior 
offense(s). A single offense or a last offense committed more than 
ten (10) years prior to the application date suggests an applicant 
will not recidivate. Subsequent employment history and efforts at 
rehabilitation is relevant to this inquiry. Crimes committed more 
recently would tend towards disqualifying the applicant. 
4.3.3  Nature of the Job Held or Sought. In light of the first two factors, 
the Director of Human Resources shall examine the nature of the 
duties and essential functions of the job held or sought to 
determine if excluding the applicant is consistent with business 
necessity. Consideration may be given to the location of the job 
and the persons the applicant will come into contact with in the 
job.  For example, convictions of property, theft, or larceny crimes 
tend toward disqualifying applicants for positions of trust or 
positions that control money or property. Convictions for violent 
felonies would tend towards disqualifying applicants from 
positions that require contact with students, staff, or the public.  
4.3.4 Applicants with disqualifying convictions shall be notified that 
they have been screened out due to a felony conviction and 
provided with an opportunity to demonstrate that they should not 
screened out due to the applicant’s particular circumstances. The 
Human Resources Office shall review this information prior to 
making a final decision. 
4.4 The screening committee is a subset of the interview committee and has a 
minimum composition of: a) the Equity Officer or representative; b) 
manager/supervisor of the position; and c) one (1) member from the operating 
unit. All members of the interview committee may and are encouraged to serve on 
the screening committee. 
4.5 Criteria for Selection of Candidates: Prior to reviewing applications, the screening 
committee shall establish appropriate criteria for the selection of candidates. The 
committee may be informed about the work force composition and the goals of 
the operating unit. 
5.0 Interviewing Applicants 
5.1 Interview Committee: The classified interview committee shall be appointed by 
the College President or Administrative Officer and shall include a 
manager/supervisor and one (1) classified member of the operating unit and one 
(1) member of the Equity Committee. 
When positions interface with academic staff (i.e., instructional assistant), a 
faculty member may be included on the interviewing committee. 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Recruitment, Selection and Appointment: 
Regular and Long-Term Temporary Positions 
R-6122 
Recruitment and Appointment 4 of 5 
 
5.2 Interviewing Procedures: The interview committee, prior to any interviews, shall 
agree on procedures, core questions to be asked, rating system, and time limit for 
the interviews. 
5.2.1 Interview committees shall be informed by the Administrative Officer 
regarding appropriate questions and rating systems. Staff members of 
District Personnel Services will provide any needed assistance. 
5.2.2 The interview committee shall submit the questions and the rating system 
to the appropriate Administrative Officer for approval prior to holding the 
interviews. 
5.2.3 The Equity Committee member shall fill out Form P-130, Employment 
Checklist, and send it to the Administrative Officer for inclusion in the 
interview information packet forwarded to Human Resources. These 
records shall be maintained by the District for three (3) years. 
5.3 The supervisor of the position being filled may conduct additional interviews after 
completion of the committee interviews. 
5.4 When the interviewing process is complete, the Administrative Officer shall 
forward to District Human Resources the following information: 
5.4.1 The names of the applicants interviewed for the position. 
5.4.2 A list of the questions asked the candidates. 
5.4.3 The name of the candidate recommended for the position. 
5.4.4 Form P-130, Employment Checklist, as completed by the Equity Officer.  
5.5 The District shall apply all legally permissible measures to develop a diverse 
workforce. 
6.0 Appointment Procedures 
6.1 Processing Interview: Each new employee shall report to Human Resources, 
District Office, prior to beginning the first day’s work so that the new employee 
can complete the oaths, agreements, or statements required by the Education 
Code, the Government Code, and the District Policies of the Board of Trustees. 
6.2 Processing Requirements: Prior to assuming duty, employees shall meet the 
following requirements: 
6.2.1 Verification of freedom from tuberculosis;  
6.2.2 Fingerprinting; 
6.2.3 Signing of Loyalty Oath; 
6.2.4 Filing of Federal/State withholding tax forms. 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Recruitment, Selection and Appointment: 
Regular and Long-Term Temporary Positions 
R-6122 
Recruitment and Appointment 5 of 5 
 
6.3 Each new regular employee shall receive a notice of employment that states the 
assigned position, the location of the job, the amount of compensation, and the 
first day of employment. 
6.4 A new employee may begin work prior to Board of Trustees action on the 
appointment. However, the appointment shall not be binding upon the District 
until the Board of Trustees affirms the appointment. 
7.0 Criminal Background Check 
7.1 Applicants shall be fingerprinted via Live Scan at the State Department of Justice 
or other qualified law enforcement agency. Employment shall not commence until 
clearance has been approved by Human Resources. The Human Resources Office 
shall review any new felony convictions that are discovered during this process 
under the process set forth in 4.3, above, and shall also take into account whether 
the failure to disclose the conviction was dishonest. 
7.2 Applicants shall be required to pay the cost of fingerprinting and processing.   
7.3 When warranted by exigent circumstances as determined by the Associate Vice 
Chancellor, Human Resources, an employee may be permitted to begin work 
prior to clearance having been granted by Human Resources. 
7.4 Police records shall be shown only to those with the legal right to see them.  
 (Formerly R-6113, R-6116 and from R-6117) 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 10/67 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 2/69; 3/70; 10/29/75; 8/15/79; 10/15/80; 10/20/82; 4/28/97; 
8/25/03; 2/23/15; 4/25/16 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 4/25/16 
Board Policy: P-6122