COMPENSATION AND SCHEDULE Long Term Professional Growth 
Leave 
R-9237 
Leaves and Absences 1 of 1 
 
1.0 Requests for Leave - Management and Confidential Employees 
1.1 The employee shall submit, in writing, a request for a Long-Term Professional 
Growth Leave through appropriate administrative channels to the Chancellor. The 
supervisor and the College Presidents or Chancellor shall attach their 
recommendations to the request. The Chancellor may recommend to the Board 
that such a leave be granted. 
1.1.1 The request must state the purpose of, length of and beginning date of the 
leave and whether compensation is desired. 
1.1.2 Such requests must be submitted by March 1 for leaves beginning during 
the next fiscal year. 
1.1.3 The Human Resources Office will maintain a schedule of such leaves to 
insure adequate coverage. 
2.0 Compensation During Leave 
2.1 If salary is to be granted, the employee shall agree to a service requirement 
following the leave. The service agreement will be prepared by the Human 
Resources Office and must be signed by the employee. The service requirement 
will require the employee to remain employed by the District for a minimum of 
two (2) years following completion of the leave. Should the employee leave the 
District prior to completions of the two years, the employee shall be required to 
repay the District the cost of salary and benefits, including health benefit 
premiums, which were provided to the employee during the period of the leave. If 
the employee completes a portion of the required service, a ratio shall be 
calculated based upon the amount of unserved time/service bears to the total 
required service period. Such ratio shall be applied to the total salary and benefit 
costs incurred by the District during the leave period and shall be owed to the 
District by the employee. 
3.0 Coverage During Leave 
3.1 The Chancellor may provide coverage during such leaves through temporary 
reassignments or limited term appointments as outlined in Board Policy and 
Administrative Regulations.  
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 2/21/78 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 2/18/81; 6/16/82; 7/5/89; 10/26/98; 11/28/05 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed:  
Board Policy: P-9237