RELATIONS BETWEEN DISTRICT/COLLEGE 
PERSONNEL AND THE PUBLIC 
 
Visitors on Campus R-1312 
Relations With Public 1 of 4 
 
1.0 Parking Fees 
1.1 Visitors parking a motorized vehicle in designated parking spaces at the Colleges 
must pay a parking fee unless an exception is granted as provided in this 
regulation. 
1.1.1 All parking fees collected shall be expended for parking services, which 
include the purchase, construction, operation, security and maintenance of 
the parking facilities. 
1.2 Visitors are allowed to purchase daily permits only and may not purchase a 
semester permit. 
1.3 The daily parking permit fee is $2.00. 
1.4 Additional parking fees may be charged for special events held on 
District/College property. In those cases, the parking fund shall be credited with 
the daily permit rate for the spaces sold for the event. 
1.5 Bicycles are not subject to parking fees. 
2.0 Parking Permits 
2.1 Visitors parking at College facilities must display a valid daily permit, a Regional 
Transit monthly permit (at Cosumnes River College only) or a special permit. 
2.1.1 The following are the only exceptions to the requirement that a visitor pay 
a fee to park at a College facility. Individuals, agencies, or entities that fit 
the following descriptions may be provided a parking permit without 
charge (or they may be allowed to park in designated areas without 
charge): 
2.1.1.1 Participants and visitors to official graduation ceremonies; 
2.1.1.2 Individuals, agencies or entities who come to the College on 
official business at the request of the District/College; 
2.1.1.3 Individuals, agencies, or entities attending or presenting at 
recruiting events at a College facility; and  
2.1.1.4 Other exceptions as approved by the President, Vice Chancellor of 
Finance and Administration, or designee. 
2.2 A visitor with a valid parking permit may only park in spaces designated as visitor 
or student parking. 
2.3 The daily permit is valid only for the date issued at the College where the daily 
permit was purchased. 

RELATIONS BETWEEN DISTRICT/COLLEGE 
PERSONNEL AND THE PUBLIC 
 
Visitors on Campus R-1312 
Relations With Public 2 of 4 
 
2.4 Daily permits must be displayed on top of the vehicle dashboard (on the 
passenger’s side) with permit number and date clearly visible through the vehicle 
windshield. Remove expired daily permits from the dashboard. 
2.5 Vehicles may park in a green visitor parking space without any permit for the 
time permitted for that space. 
3.0 Parking Rules 
3.1 A valid parking permit is required 24 hours a day, seven days per week. 
Overnight parking is not permitted without written permission from the Los Rios 
Police Department. 
3.2 All other parking regulations are enforced 24 hours a day, seven days per week. 
3.3 All vehicles must adhere to parking regulations and are subject to citations and 
fines as provided by California Vehicle Code, section 21113, subdivision (a). 
3.4 Vehicles not properly parked within the designated parking spaces or parking in 
out-of-zone areas may be subject to parking citation and/or be towed away at 
owner’s expense. 
3.5 Vehicles parked illegally in red zones and other unauthorized spaces such as 
parking spaces designated for persons with disabilities may be subject to parking 
citation and/or be towed away at owner’s expense.  
3.6 Colleges may designate parking spaces as visitor parking, student parking, staff 
parking, semester permit only parking, daily permit only parking, or any 
combination thereof. 
3.7 Bicycles must be parked in designated areas or bicycle racks located on campus. 
3.8 The issuance of a parking permit does not guarantee parking availability. The 
responsibility of finding legal parking spaces rests with the motor vehicle 
operator. Lack of parking spaces is not considered a valid reason for violation of 
District parking regulations and California Vehicle Code provisions. 
4.0 Parking Citation Payment Plan 
4.1 A registered owner or person responsible for vehicle citations received on the 
District’s property shall be eligible to enroll in a payment plan when they have 
multiple unpaid parking citations in excess of a dollar amount established by the 
Chief of the Los Rios Police Department. 
4.1.1 Late fees shall be placed in abeyance while the payment plan is in place 
and the individual adheres to its terms, and shall be waived once the 
payment plan is completed. 

RELATIONS BETWEEN DISTRICT/COLLEGE 
PERSONNEL AND THE PUBLIC 
 
Visitors on Campus R-1312 
Relations With Public 3 of 4 
 
4.1.2 Once the payment plan is in place and the individual adheres to its terms, 
an itemization of unpaid parking penalties and service fees as described in 
section 4.1.1 shall not be filed with the Department of Motor Vehicles, 
and any DMV Registration Hold(s) in place will be temporarily removed 
pending satisfactory completion of the payment plan. 
4.1.3 If an individual defaults on the payment plan, a subsequent payment plan 
will not be offered for those citations and any late fees placed in abeyance 
will be immediately reinstated. The total amount due, including all late 
fees, will be submitted to the appropriate Department of Motor Vehicles 
for a Registration Hold on the vehicle. An Academic Hold will be placed 
on the student’s records until the total fees are paid in full. 
4.1.4 The terms and conditions of the parking citation payment plan shall be 
posted on the Los Rios Police Department’s website. 
4.1.5 If additional citations are accrued during the payment plan period, the plan 
may not be modified to include these citations, nor will a concurrent 
payment plan be offered. 
4.1.6 Citations in a payment plan will not count towards 
immobilization/tow/impound eligibility pursuant to CVC 22651(i)(l). 
4.1.7 Once a vehicle is immobilized/towed/impounded due to other violations, 
all citations, including those on a payment plan, are immediately due 
pursuant to CVC 22651(i)(l)(C). 
5.0 Parking for Persons with Disabilities 
5.1 The unique placard issued by Department of Motor Vehicles or a distinguishing 
license plate for persons with disabilities and a valid daily permit must be 
properly displayed on the vehicle when parking in student, disabled, or visitor 
parking spaces. 
5.2 Visitors with a temporary disability may obtain a special permit that allows 
parking in spaces designated for disabled persons. Visitors who are temporarily 
disabled who are issued a special permit are still subject to paying the daily 
parking fee when parking in student, disabled, or visitor parking spaces. The 
special parking permit due to the temporary disability and a valid daily permit 
must be properly displayed on the vehicle. 
5.3 Visitors who park at parking meters or in green visitor parking spaces must only 
properly display a unique placard issued by Department of Motor Vehicles or a 
distinguishing license plate for persons with disabilities and do not need to pay 
the meter or display a valid daily permit. 

RELATIONS BETWEEN DISTRICT/COLLEGE 
PERSONNEL AND THE PUBLIC 
 
Visitors on Campus R-1312 
Relations With Public 4 of 4 
 
5.4 Vehicles not displaying the appropriate license plate, placard or special permit, or 
valid daily permit may be subject to parking citation and/or be towed away at 
owner’s expense. 
5.5 Visitors with disabilities may use the designated parking spaces provided for 
persons with disabilities, staff, visitors, or any other student parking spaces 
provided. 
6.0 Warranty, Liability 
6.1 The District/College(s) makes no warranty or accepts no liability or responsibility 
for loss or damage to any vehicle or its contents while parked at a District/College 
facility. In addition, the District/College(s) assumes no liability for injury to 
persons or property from the use or exercise of the license provided by a parking 
permit. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 10/18/17;11/26/18 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 11/26/18 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed:  
Board Policy: P-1312