EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Violence-Free Workplace   R-5175 
Employment Policies 1 of 2 
 
1.0 Administration of Administrative Regulations 
1.1 The Associate Vice Chancellor, Human Resources of the Los Rios Community 
College District and/or designees shall administer this Administrative Regulation. 
2.0 Definition of Workplace Violence 
2.1 Workplace violence includes threatening, intimidating, physically abusive, 
physically aggressive, or otherwise violent actions that would cause a reasonable 
person to believe that he or she is in danger of physical harm and which 
compromises the person’s safety. Workplace violence includes the threat of 
violence. 
3.0 Procedure for Reporting Incidents 
3.1 In the case of emergency situations, employees should contact the College Police 
Department or, if appropriate, dial 911 for emergency assistance. After contacting 
appropriate security and/or emergency personnel, the employee must report the 
incident to his or her supervisor if the supervisor is available. The supervisor must 
then notify the Vice President of Administration. If the supervisor is not available, 
the employee should contact the Associate Vice Chancellor, Human Resources or 
the College President directly. 
4.0 Preliminary Investigation 
4.1 Upon receiving a report, the supervisor or Vice President of Administration or 
designee may conduct a preliminary investigation of the reported incident. If a 
preliminary investigation is conducted, such findings shall be reported to the 
College President or designee. If the alleged perpetrator is a student, the Vice 
President of Student Services must be notified as well.  
5.0 Formal Investigation 
5.1 Upon receiving the preliminary investigation report, the College President or 
designee may conduct a formal investigation of the reported incident, including 
interviews with the alleged victim(s), alleged perpetrator, and any identified 
witnesses, to obtain specific information regarding the incident. Following the 
formal investigation, the College President or designee shall prepare a formal 
written report. 
5.2 The College Police Department shall investigate and prepare any required 
criminal reports and shall advise any affected employee of his or her options 
regarding restraining orders and/or criminal reports. 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Violence-Free Workplace   R-5175 
Employment Policies 2 of 2 
 
6.0 District Policy Violations 
6.1 If it is determined that an employee has violated District Policy P-5175 by 
engaging in workplace violence, appropriate corrective action and/or disciplinary 
action, up to and including termination, may be taken according to applicable 
procedures and collective bargaining agreements. 
7.0 Reporting 
7.1 No one who—acting in good faith—initiates a complaint, reports an incident 
under this Administrative Regulation, or participates in an investigation will be 
subject to discipline, nor will such activities affect the concerned individual’s 
future dealings with the District, the individual’s employment, or the individual’s 
compensation or work assignments. 
7.2 If it is determined that a complaint or report has been made under this 
Administrative Regulation in bad faith or solely for the purpose of harassment or 
vexation, appropriate disciplinary action, up to and including termination, may be 
taken according to applicable procedures and applicable collective bargaining 
agreements. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 11/2/05 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 1/26/15; 1/25/16 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 1/25/16 
Board Policy: P-5175