STUDENT SUCCESS AND SUPPORT PROGRAM 
 
Services   R-2811 
Student Success and Support Program 1 of 2 
 
1.0 Student Success and Support Program (SSSP) Services (Title V, § 
55520) 
1.1 The Colleges of the Los Rios Community College District shall provide Student 
Success and Support Program Services (SSSP), which shall include: 
1.1.1 Orientation services designed to provide nonexempt students and potential 
students information concerning academic expectations and progress and 
probation standards, maintaining registration priority, the prerequisite and 
co-requisite challenge process, maintaining Board of Governors Fee 
Waiver eligibility, instructional and student support services, academic 
calendar and important timelines, registration and college fees, available 
education planning services, and other matters the Colleges of the District 
find appropriate. 
1.1.2 Multiple measure assessment of students that includes the use of as many 
of the following as appropriate: high school and other college/school 
records, aptitudes, interests, study and learning skills, motivation, external 
demands, and life experiences. State Chancellor approved tests of 
computational and language skills may be used as long as they are not 
applied as the sole criterion. 
1.1.3 Counseling and advising to assist students in interpreting multiple measure 
data, identification and clarification of education goals and course of 
study, developing and updating education plans that identify students’ 
education goals and course of study and the courses and instructional and 
student support services necessary to achieve them. 
1.1.4 A follow-up system to ensure that the academic progress of each student is 
regularly monitored to detect early signs of academic difficulty and to 
provide advice and referral to specialized services that may be available 
including counseling, financial aid, health services, placement services, 
Extended Opportunity Programs and Services (EOPS), CalWORKS, child 
care, tutorial services, Disabled Student Programs and Services (DSPS), 
and specialized instructional programs including, but not limited to, 
precollegiate basic skills and English as a Second Language courses.  
2.0 Accommodations (Title V, § 55526) 
2.1 The College shall modify or provide alternative services to accommodate EOPS, 
English language learners, and students with disabilities.  
2.2 EOPS and DSPS are authorized to provide specialized services to their respective 
student populations. As participation in the EOPS and DSPS programs are 
voluntary, no student may be denied necessary accommodations because he or she 
chooses not to use specialized programs provided by EOPS and DSPS. 

STUDENT SUCCESS AND SUPPORT PROGRAM 
 
Services   R-2811 
Student Success and Support Program 2 of 2 
 
2.3 Modified or alternative services for English language learners may be provided 
through the College English as a Second Language program. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 10/8/91 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 4/27/15 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 4/27/15 
Board Policy: P-2811