EXPENDITURES 
  
Risk Management R-8331 
Business Services 1 of 6 
 
1.0 Risk Management 
Risk management is a specialized discipline intended to provide management with 
information pertinent to the identification, analysis, evaluation, and financing of 
exposures to loss. 
1.1 The following techniques of risk management will be employed by the Los Rios 
Community College District. 
1.1.1 Recognition - Identify, analyze, and evaluate all exposures to loss. 
1.1.2 Avoidance - A risk may be avoided by not accepting it or by not entering 
into a risk situation, if possible. 
1.1.3 Loss Prevention/Reduction - The District will use loss 
prevention/reduction techniques wherever possible, consistent with costs 
involved. Loss prevention will have priority over other techniques for 
handling loss exposures. 
1.1.4 Retention - The District will retain loss exposures or parts of the exposures 
when it is economically and statistically appropriate and the financial 
resources of the District are sufficient. 
1.1.5 Non-insurance Transfer - In all contractual relationships, the District will 
transfer to others all exposures to loss from chance events appropriate to 
the transaction and relationship of the parties. 
1.1.6 Insurance Transfer - The Los Rios Community College District will 
purchase insurance under the following circumstances: 
1.1.6.1 When required by law or contract. 
1.1.6.2 When the amount of potential loss is too large to be financially 
retained by the District. 
1.1.6.3 When the probable annual cost variation is unacceptable and 
insurance is available on acceptable terms. 
1.1.6.4 When insurance can better or more economically provide 
accessory services required, such as inspection, claims handling, 
legal qualifications, and loss prevention. 
1.1.7 Combined Insurance Transfer and Retention - The District will combine 
insurance transfer and retention through use of deductibles, pools, and 
excess insurance where loss levels can be safely retained. 
2.0 Self Insurance Provision  
2.1 Risks that are retained by the District shall be funded from the District’s annual 
operating budget and shall be maintained and administered in the Self Insurance 

EXPENDITURES 
  
Risk Management R-8331 
Business Services 2 of 6 
 
Fund of the District. The establishment of adequate reserves for self-insured 
losses is a primary objective of the self insurance program. 
2.2 Funds should be available to cover both normal, expected losses and unexpected 
losses to the extent of the agreed-level of coverage per loss or in the aggregate. 
2.3 A self insurance premium charge formula shall be established to insure the 
adequacy of reserves and provide for the administrative operating expenses of the 
program. The formula should provide for adequate funding levels to prevent 
significant unusual charges against the District’s annual operating budget. 
2.3.1 When insurance is obtained to cover losses above the self-insured 
retentions (SIR), the following guidelines shall be used: 
2.3.2 Fire insurance shall include extended coverage and vandalism and 
malicious mischief, for all buildings owned by the District and on the 
contents of all buildings owned or occupied by the District. Coverage shall 
be on a replacement basis. 
2.3.3 Comprehensive liability insurance, including liability for operation of 
vehicles, covering members of the Los Rios Community College District 
Board of Trustees, the District, officers, and employees, as required by 
Education Code, section 72506, and as permitted by Government Code, 
section 990. 
2.3.4 Workers’ compensation insurance covering all employees of the District 
in accordance with the provisions of the laws of the State of California. 
2.3.5 Fidelity bonds to protect the District against loss resulting from fraud or 
dishonesty of officers or employees. 
2.3.6 Special coverage of District personal property including loss of money and 
securities. 
2.3.7 Boiler and pressure vessel insurance including inspections as required. 
2.3.8 Student accident/athletic insurance. (Ed. Code, § 32221) 
2.3.9 Coverage of student body organizations and property including liability, 
workers’ compensation, fire, all physical loss, similar to District coverage. 
2.3.10 Such other insurance as may be authorized by the Board of Trustees. 
3.0 Placing of Insurance 
3.1 The Chancellor shall report to the Board of Trustees the need for insurance, 
together with relevant information including coverage experience and costs for 
placing such insurance. 
3.2 Upon authorization by the Board of Trustees, insurance coverage shall be placed 
in accordance with such authorization. 

EXPENDITURES 
  
Risk Management R-8331 
Business Services 3 of 6 
 
3.3 In an emergency, insurance shall be placed by the Chancellor and shall 
immediately be reported for ratification to the Board of Trustees. 
4.0 Purchasing of Insurance 
4.1 Insurance shall be obtained through negotiation or competitive bids and shall be 
awarded to those who contract to furnish the coverage required at the lowest and 
best price consistent with good service and financial security. 
5.0 Property Valuation 
5.1 Valuation of District property for insurance purposes shall be based upon 
reasonable appraisal methods. The appraisal shall update values regularly to 
reflect changes in replacement costs. In determining the necessary amount of 
coverage, allowance shall be made for non-insurable items. 
5.2 Records shall be maintained listing all pertinent data necessary to establish value 
of District properties for insurance or loss adjustment purposes. 
6.0 Payment of Premiums 
6.1 Demands on payment of insurance premiums based on orders duly authorized and 
issued shall be paid in the same manner as other demands against the funds of the 
District. 
7.0 Cancellation of Insurance Policies 
7.1 Insurance policies shall be canceled when deemed advisable and unearned 
premiums returned for deposit except that coverage required by the Board of 
Trustees shall be maintained. 
8.0 Insurance Records 
8.1 Information maintained in the Business Services Office shall include insurance 
companies carrying insurance, agents or brokers through whom policies are 
written, premiums and rates, experience, and property values. 
9.0 Annual Report 
9.1 The Chancellor shall prepare an annual information report to the Board of 
Trustees, which includes: 
9.1.1 The status of both conventional and self-insured coverages and any 
significant changes; and  
9.1.2 Claims experience and expense for the preceding fiscal year of the District 
insurance program.   

EXPENDITURES 
  
Risk Management R-8331 
Business Services 4 of 6 
 
9.2 The report shall be prepared and distributed to members of the Board of Trustees 
no later than October 31 following the reported fiscal year.   
10.0 Construction Project Fire Insurance 
10.1 New buildings 
10.1.1 Fire insurance shall be carried on new buildings or other structures 
constructed under contract upon acceptance of the completed contract by 
the Board of Trustees. 
10.2 Existing buildings 
10.2.1 During the performance of contracts for alterations, additions, repairs, 
reconstruction, rehabilitation, or other work in or on existing buildings, 
fire insurance, including extended coverage and vandalism and malicious 
mischief, shall be carried by the District or contractor. 
10.3 Specifications for alterations or new construction shall contain provisions in 
accordance with this section. 
11.0 Accident Reports 
11.1 A written report of any accident occurring on District premises or involved with 
District activities resulting in injury to person or property shall be submitted to the 
Business Services Office of the District. 
12.0 Claim Filing Procedures 
12.1 Any claim or written demand concerning an accident involving the District shall 
be forwarded immediately to the Office of General Counsel. 
12.2 Recommendation with respect to rejection or settlement of claims shall be made 
in accordance with provisions of law. After Board action, appropriate notices will 
be sent to District claims administrator and claimant. 
12.3 In addition to claims otherwise required by Government Code, section 905 et seq., 
the filing of a claim shall be required prior to the commencement of any litigation 
involving: 
a) a claim by a public employee for which workers’ compensation is the 
exclusive remedy; 
b) a claim by a public employee for fees, salaries, wages, mileage, or other 
expenses and allowances; 
c) an application or claim for money or benefits under any public retirement 
or pension system; or, 

EXPENDITURES 
  
Risk Management R-8331 
Business Services 5 of 6 
 
d) a claim by the State of California or by a State department or agency or by 
another local public entity. (Gov. Code, § 935) 
12.4 Any claim required by Section 13.3 shall be filed no later than twelve (12) months 
following accrual of the cause of action. 
13.0 Settlement of Losses 
13.1 In claims of $40,000 or less, the Chancellor shall act as adjuster for the District in 
the settlement of losses and shall sign proof of loss as authorized. On losses over 
$40,000 the Chancellor shall recommend to the Board of Trustees the basis for 
settlement and request authorization for the appropriate amount. 
14.0 Safety Incentive Program 
14.1 Safety awareness in the work environment is promulgated by the District in order 
to reduce on-the-job injuries to employees, as well as the reduction of associated 
costs. The District is interested in promoting safety awareness through workshops 
and scheduled safety meetings, implementation of safety devices, award programs 
and other preventative activities. 
14.2 Employees of the District may be presented with awards or other special 
recognition for special safety activities or superior safety record, and other special 
acts or services. The annual amount appropriated from the Self Insurance Fund 
for district Safety Incentive Programs shall not exceed ten thousand dollars 
($10,000). 
14.2.1 Employee Safety Incentive Programs shall be approved by the Chancellor. 
The cost related to the Safety Incentive Programs shall be charged to the 
annual amount committed for this purpose. 
14.3 Appropriate expenditures for these Safety Incentive Program activities, 
workshops, and District safety meetings include the following: 
14.3.1 Framed certificates, plaques, trophies, gift certificates, and flowers; 
14.3.2 T-shirts, ball caps, and other promotional mementos; 
14.3.3 Food and non-alcoholic beverages for special recognition programs and 
activities; and 
14.3.4 Other incidental expenses relating to the activity. 
The cost of the award per individual employee shall not exceed $200. 
 (Formerly R-8441) 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 9/1/65  
Adm. Regulation Revised: 2/1/67; 2/4/81; 6/16/82; 11/7/90; 1/12/94; 3/15/95; 10/13/97; 
1/15/03; 4/27/15 

EXPENDITURES 
  
Risk Management R-8331 
Business Services 6 of 6 
 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 4/27/15 
Board Policy: P-8331