USE OF SCHOOL FACILITIES BY THE PUBLIC 
 
Ban on Alcohol on District 
Property (Exceptions) 
R-1414 
Civic Center Activities 1 of 3 
 
1.0 General 
1.1 The Business and Professions Code and related statutes control the acquisition, 
possession, use, sale, and consumption of alcoholic beverages. The California 
State Alcoholic Beverage Control (ABC) Board is responsible for interpretation 
and enforcement of these laws. The College Police are responsible for exercising 
normal police powers in enforcing laws relating to alcohol on Los Rios 
Community College District and College property. 
2.0 Limitations, Requirements and Restrictions 
2.1 This Administrative Regulation is subject to all applicable State and Federal laws. 
2.2 The Chancellor has designated the General Counsel to act in all matters related to 
alcoholic beverages on College/District grounds, buildings, or facilities. In 
conjunction with the General Counsel, the Chancellor has also designated the 
College President as the person responsible for these actions at each College.   
2.3 Persons who seek authorization for the acquisition, possession, sale, use, or 
consumption of alcohol in conjunction with a course of instruction, sponsored 
dinners, or meal demonstrations given as part of the culinary arts program on 
College grounds, buildings, or facilities, shall submit a written request to the 
President of that College for authorization. Persons who seek that authorization 
for District grounds, buildings, or facilities shall submit the written request to 
General Counsel. The request shall contain a brief description of the methods of 
acquisition, possession, sale, use, or consumption of alcohol and the reasons for 
the need for the use of alcohol. The President or General Counsel shall only grant 
authorization when the President or General Counsel determines the course of 
instruction requires it. At any time, the authorization so granted may be revoked 
by the Chancellor, the Los Rios Community College District Board of Trustees, 
or the person who authorized the activity. The President or designee shall provide 
all such authorizations to the Director of General Services.  
2.4 Persons who seek authorization for the acquisition, possession, sale, use, or 
consumption of alcohol in conjunction with events or special events held on 
College grounds, buildings, or facilities, shall submit a written application (See 
Appendix A) to the President of that College and the General Counsel for 
authorization. For Foundation fundraisers, or where the Foundation is the sponsor 
of the ABC license, the application shall also be submitted to the Associate Vice 
Chancellor of Resource Development for approval. Persons who seek that 
authorization for District grounds, buildings, or facilities shall submit the written 
request for authorization to the General Counsel and the Associate Vice 
Chancellor of Resource Development (when the Foundation is the sponsor of the 
ABC license). The President and General Counsel shall only grant authorization 
when he or she determines an event and its location is appropriate for the 
consumption of alcohol. The Associate Vice Chancellor of Resource 
Development shall only grant authorization when he or she determines it is 
appropriate for the Foundation to be the applicant for the ABC license. The 

USE OF SCHOOL FACILITIES BY THE PUBLIC 
 
Ban on Alcohol on District 
Property (Exceptions) 
R-1414 
Civic Center Activities 2 of 3 
 
request shall be submitted to the President and Associate Vice Chancellor of 
Resource Development at least forty-five (45) days prior to the event, and 
forwarded to the General Counsel’s office at least thirty (30) days prior to the 
event for College events. A copy of the request for authorization form is attached 
(See Appendix A). An appropriate permit shall be obtained from the Department 
of Alcoholic Beverage Control and shall be submitted at least ten (10) days prior 
to the event; or the service of alcohol at the event shall not be allowed. Where 
appropriate controls cannot be satisfactorily established, authorization shall not be 
given for the serving of alcohol. At any time, the authorization so granted may be 
revoked by the Chancellor, the Board of Trustees, or the person who authorized 
the activity. 
2.5 When events are held on College/District premises and alcoholic beverages are 
made available as part of the event, the following requirements must be met: 
2.5.1 Event sponsors shall implement precautionary measures to insure that 
alcoholic beverages are not accessible or served to persons under age 21 or 
to persons who appear intoxicated. The use of a wristband system is 
encouraged where persons under 21 are present. 
2.5.2 Direct access to events where alcohol is being served must be restricted to 
invited or ticketed participants only. 
2.5.3 Suitable non-alcoholic beverages and food shall be made available at all 
functions when alcoholic beverages are served. Non-alcoholic beverages 
should be of comparable quality and shall be featured as prominently as 
the alcoholic beverages. 
2.5.4 Servers and event assistants are prohibited from consuming any alcoholic 
beverages at the event. 
2.5.5 Event sponsors may be required to discontinue the consumption of alcohol 
at a set time before the scheduled ending of the event. 
2.5.6 For College events, the College Police, in conjunction with the Vice 
Presidents of Administration, shall establish appropriate levels of police 
presence for an event. For District events, the College Police, in 
conjunction with the Director of General Services, shall establish 
appropriate levels of police presence for an event. Event sponsors may be 
required to pay for policing at campus events where alcohol is served or 
sold. 
3.0 Infractions, Accountability, and Sanctions 
3.1 Violations by students or student groups of P-1414 or R-1414 shall be referred to 
the relevant Disciplinary Authorities (P-2441) for disciplinary action. In addition, 
alcohol-related violations of the Business and Professions Code or the Penal Code 
shall be addressed by the College Police, when appropriate. 

USE OF SCHOOL FACILITIES BY THE PUBLIC 
 
Ban on Alcohol on District 
Property (Exceptions) 
R-1414 
Civic Center Activities 3 of 3 
 
3.2 Employees of the District who violate this District Policy are subject to discipline 
pursuant to the District’s established policies, California laws and the terms of 
any applicable collective bargaining agreement. In addition, alcohol-related 
violations of the Business and Professions Code or the Penal Code shall be 
addressed by the College Police, when appropriate. 
3.3 College Police are responsible for handling violations of this policy, the Business 
and Professions Code or the Penal Code, by invitees, contracted workers, visitors 
or guests on District property and at District functions.  
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 4/17/06 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 2/13/13; 4/27/15; 9/28/15; 12/12/16 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 12/12/16 
Board Policy: P-1414  
 

USE OF COLLEGE/DISTRICT FACILITIES 
 
Ban on Alcohol on District 
Property (Exceptions) 
R-1414 
Civic Center Activities 4 of 4 
 
 
APPENDIX A 
 
REQUEST FOR AUTHORIZATION TO SERVE ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 
 
(Must be submitted to the College President and the Associate Vice Chancellor of Resource 
Development more than 45 days prior to event and forwarded to the General Counsel 30 
days prior to the Event; Include copy of ABC Application) 
 
Requestor (Check one):    
Foundation: ☐ Los Rios ☐ ARC ☐ CRC ☐ FLC ☐ SCC 
College:   ☐ ARC ☐ CRC ☐ FLC ☐ SCC 
Event Description:        
Sponsor of ABC License:            
Alcohol Beverages to be served:          
Date of Request:       Date of Event:     
Location of Event:       Time of Event:     
To be Completed by COLLEGE PRESIDENT: 
Date Request Received:        ☐ Approved ☐ Denied 
              
Signed by College President      Date 
To be Completed by ASSOCIATE VICE CHANCELLOR, RESOURCE DEV. (if applicable): 
Date Request Received:        ☐ Approved ☐ Denied 
              
Signed by Associate Vice Chancellor, Resource Development Date 
To be Completed by GENERAL COUNSEL: 
Date Request Received:        ☐ Approved ☐ Denied 
              
Signed by General Counsel      Date 
Alcohol Beverage Control License Obtained*? ☐ Yes  ☐ No 
Date submitted to General Counsel:      
*Submit to General Counsel 10 days prior to date of event or alcohol may not be served at the event 
Cc: General Counsel 
General Services 
President 
Associate Vice Chancellor of Resource Development 
Vice President of Administration