INSTRUCTIONAL COMPUTER USE 
 
Information Security R-7871 
Security 1 of 9 
 
1.0 This Administrative Regulation is intended to guarantee, to the 
extent possible, the security and integrity of the Systems. 
1.1 The Systems are owned by the Los Rios Community College District and are to 
be used for District-related activities only.  If faculty, staff or students bring 
personally-owned equipment into the District environment, they will be required 
to adhere to existing District and College policy as use of their equipment may 
affect the work of others. 
1.2 Informational access to resources connected to local, national and/or international 
networks may be permitted, as a courtesy to others on the network, as long as 
their use does not adversely affect campus use and such access provides benefit to 
the District. 
1.3 Users shall recognize their responsibility in the process of maintaining security of 
District computing and networking resources. 
2.0 District Information Security Officer 
2.1 The District’s Vice Chancellor, Education and Technology shall be the District’s 
Information Security Officer (ISO).  The District ISO, in conjunction with the 
District Office Information Technology Department (District IT Department), is 
responsible for implementing the Information Security Policy and Regulation.  
The District ISO with the assistance of the District’s internal Auditors shall: 
2.1.1 Ensure the Information Security District Policy and Administrative 
Regulation is updated on a regular basis and published as appropriate. 
2.1.2 Ensure appropriate training is provided to data owners, data custodians, 
network and system administrators, and users. 
2.1.2.1 Data owners are the person or persons responsible for creating data 
that is resident on the Systems; 
2.1.2.2 Data custodians are the persons responsible for administering the 
infrastructure to store and transmit data on the Systems;  
2.1.2.3 Data users include any District employee, student, contractor, 
vendor or other person who uses the Systems; 
2.1.2.4 The terms system and network administrator as used in this 
Administrative Regulation are generic and pertain to any person 
who performs those duties, not just those with that title or primary 
job duty. 
2.1.3 Ensure each College and the District Office appoints a person responsible 
for security implementation, incident response, periodic user access 
reviews, and distribution of information security policies and education, 

INSTRUCTIONAL COMPUTER USE 
 
Information Security R-7871 
Security 2 of 9 
 
(e.g. information about virus infection risks). 
2.1.4 Respond to internal and external complaints and/or queries about real or 
perceived non-compliance with the District’s Information Security Policy 
and Administrative Regulation. 
2.2 Each manager is responsible for establishing procedures to implement the 
provisions of this District Policy and Administrative Regulation within their areas 
of responsibility, and for monitoring compliance. 
3.0 Data Classification Policy 
2.3 It is essential that all District data be protected. Different categories of data 
require different levels of security. All data should be reviewed on a periodic 
basis and classified according to its use, sensitivity, and importance.  There are 
three primary categories of data in the District’s Systems: 
2.3.1 High Risk Data – High Risk data is information for which the law 
prohibits unauthorized disclosure and requires notification of the affected 
parties if unauthorized disclosure occurs.  Data covered by federal and 
state identity theft prevention laws, such as the Information Practices Act 
of 1977 (Civ. Code, § 1798, et seq.), Health Insurance Portability and 
Accountability Act (10 U.S.C., § 1320d-2), the Financial Information 
Privacy Act, (Fin. Code, §§ 4050, et seq.), or other laws are in this 
category.  Any electronic record of a Social Security number, driver 
license number, or California Identification Card number, medical 
information, health insurance account number, or bank/credit account 
number (with any required access password) when associated with other 
data that in any way identifies a person falls in this category. A username 
or email address, in combination with a password or security question and 
answer that would permit access to a District online account also falls in 
this category.  Data in this category requires the highest degree of care to 
safeguard it from unauthorized use and/or disclosure. 
2.3.1.1 Other data may need to be treated as High Risk because it would 
cause severe damage to the District if disclosed or modified. The 
data owner should make this determination. It is the data owner’s 
responsibility to implement the necessary security requirements. 
2.3.2 Confidential Data – Confidential data is information not meeting the 
criteria of High Risk Data, but subject to other legal privacy requirements, 
such as FERPA (20 U.S.C., § 1232g), the privacy clause of the California 
Constitution (Cal. Const., Art. 1, § 1), the California Student Records Act 
(Ed. Code, §§ 76200, et seq.), and the attorney-client or other legally 
recognized privilege. Confidential data can also include data that would 
not expose the District to financial or other liability if disclosed without 
authorization, but that the data owner feels should be protected to prevent 
unauthorized disclosure. It is the data owner’s responsibility to implement 

INSTRUCTIONAL COMPUTER USE 
 
Information Security R-7871 
Security 3 of 9 
 
the necessary security requirements for this type of data. 
2.3.3 Unrestricted Data – Unrestricted data is information that may be released 
or shared on an as needed basis.  Examples of this data would be 
schedules of classes, or other publicly available information. 
2.4 All District data shall be categorized in one of the three categories set forth in 
section 3.1 and protected according to the requirements set for each category. The 
data category and its corresponding level of protection should be consistent when 
the data is replicated and as it flows through the District. 
2.4.1 Managers must ensure that all data collected or stored by persons in their 
operating unit is properly classified.  Data owners must determine the data 
classification and must ensure that the data custodian is protecting the data 
in a manner appropriate to its classification. 
2.4.2 No District-owned system or network subnet can have a connection to the 
Internet without the means to protect the information on those systems 
consistent with its confidentiality classification.  (All District computers 
are connected to the internet unless specific effort has been taken to 
eliminate such connections.)  
2.4.3 Data custodians are responsible for creating data repositories and data 
transfer procedures which protect data in the manner appropriate to its 
classification. 
2.4.4 High Risk data must be encrypted during transmission over insecure 
channels (all network connections should be considered insecure unless 
the District IT Department has provided specific guidance otherwise). 
2.4.5 High Risk data, when stored on portable computers or storage devices, 
shall be encrypted on the disk to prevent access without knowledge of a 
password. 
2.4.6 Confidential data should be encrypted during transmission over insecure 
channels. 
2.4.7 All data necessary for the efficient operation of the District should be 
backed up, and the backups tested periodically, as part of a documented, 
regular process. 
2.4.8 Backups of data must be handled with the same security precautions as the 
data itself. When Systems are disposed of, or repurposed, data must be 
certified deleted or disks destroyed consistent with industry best practices 
for the security level of the data. 
4.0 Required Information Security Practices 
4.1 The following information security practices are mandatory: 

INSTRUCTIONAL COMPUTER USE 
 
Information Security R-7871 
Security 4 of 9 
 
4.1.1 The District shall use a layered approach of overlapping controls, 
monitoring and authentication to ensure overall security of the District’s 
data, network and system resources. 
4.1.2 Security reviews of servers, firewalls, routers and monitoring platforms 
shall be conducted on a regular basis. These reviews shall include user and 
access privileges, monitoring access logs and results of intrusion detection 
software, where it has been installed. 
4.1.3 All collection and use of High Risk data is forbidden except when required 
in performance of assigned duties.  Collection, storage and use of High 
Risk data must be approved by management.  No High Risk data shall be 
transported off site without proper authorization.  Where reasonable 
alternatives exist or can be created in lieu of the use or creation of High 
Risk data, those alternatives shall be used. 
4.1.4 All workstations shall be configured such that after a few minutes of 
inactivity (not to exceed 30) they shall automatically enter screen saver 
mode and require a password to resume work. 
4.1.5 Servers, desktop computers, or portable computers storing data including 
Social Security numbers, driver license numbers, credit card numbers, or 
other financial account information linked to names must be reported to 
the District IT Department. At least two times each year, vulnerability 
scans shall be run against these identified machines. 
4.1.6 Computers storing High Risk Data shall require a password for access and 
shall be configured to go into password protected screensaver mode within 
a reasonable time of non-operation.  Encryption is required for High Risk 
data stored on portable computers and portable storage devices (e.g. USB 
flash storage or external drives).  
4.1.7 Application development that is intended to store, manipulate, or transfer 
High Risk data must occur in a secure development environment, and to 
the extent any development or testing occurs outside the secure 
development environment must use data with all High Risk elements 
removed or fictionalized during the development and testing process.   
4.1.8 An employee, data owner, data custodian, network and system 
administrator or user shall immediately notify the District ISO if that 
person becomes aware that High Risk or Confidential data has been lost, 
stolen, compromised, or disclosed to an unauthorized person. 
4.1.9 When outsourcing application support for applications that store High 
Risk or Confidential data, asset protection and escrow arrangements in the 
event of third party failure should be included in the contractual language. 
Asset protection refers to a process where the agencies agree upon 
ownership and the classification of information, and documents the 
process for safeguarding each asset to protect against data loss, data theft, 

INSTRUCTIONAL COMPUTER USE 
 
Information Security R-7871 
Security 5 of 9 
 
or unauthorized access to data. Escrow arrangements provide for access 
and use of the application source code in the event the vendor goes out of 
business or otherwise is unable to continue to support the application.  
4.1.10 Critical technology (i.e. remote access technologies, wireless technologies, 
removable electronic media, laptops, tablets, PDAs, email, and internet 
usage) with access to credit card processing devices/networks, must have 
the following usage policies established: 
4.1.10.1 Explicit approval by management.  
4.1.10.2 Authentication for use of the technology.  
4.1.10.3 Log of all devices and personnel with access.  
4.1.10.4 Acceptable uses of technologies defined and documented. 
4.1.10.5 Acceptable network locations for the technologies defined 
and documented. 
4.1.10.6 Automatic disconnect of sessions for remote-access 
technologies after a specific period of inactivity. 
4.1.10.7 Activation of remote access technologies for vendors and 
business partners only when needed and immediate 
deactivation after use. 
5.0 Recommended Information Security Practices 
5.1 The following information security practices are strongly recommended, but not 
required: 
5.1.1 Vulnerability and risk assessment tests of external network connections 
should be conducted on a regular basis.  A regular basis, at a minimum, 
includes testing annually, but the sensitivity of the information secured 
may require that these tests be done more often. 
5.1.2 Education should be provided to District faculty and staff to ensure that 
users understand data sensitivity issues, levels of confidentiality, and the 
mechanisms to protect the data. This should be tailored to the role of the 
individual, network administrator, system administrator, data custodian, 
and users. 
5.1.3 Use of existing data stores is preferred over development of new data 
stores containing High Risk or Confidential data.  Creation of any 
computer file or database that contains High Risk or Confidential data 
must be approved in advance by a College or District manager.  Such 
approved data stores will be identified and communicated to District IT 
Department in order that the computer(s) storing such data may be 

INSTRUCTIONAL COMPUTER USE 
 
Information Security R-7871 
Security 6 of 9 
 
monitored to assure proper configuration to reduce the chance of intrusion 
by unauthorized users.  Sufficient information about the data to be 
collected and stored and the proposed use of the data must be 
communicated to District IT Department to support analysis of possible 
use of existing data stores to meet the work requirements. 
6.0 Access Control Policy 
6.1 Data shall be captured and stored in a manner that supports employees accessing 
the data necessary to the job function without permitting access to sensitive or 
confidential data unnecessary to the job function. There is a delicate balance 
between protecting the data and permitting access to those who need to use the 
data for authorized purposes. This balance should be recognized and maintained. 
6.2 More than one person shall have full administrative rights to any District owned 
server storing or transmitting data necessary to the ongoing operation of the 
district. Data owners or custodians may enact more restrictive policies for end-
user access to their data. 
6.3 Access to the network and servers and Systems shall be achieved by individual 
and unique logins, and shall require authentication. Authentication includes the 
use of passwords, smart cards, biometrics, or other recognized forms of 
authentication.  Access to the administrative network must be achieved by 
individual and unique logins and must require authentication.  Account sharing on 
the administrative network is prohibited.  Access to the WiFi Public network may 
be granted with shared logins for guests of the District attending a training, 
meeting, conference, or other management approved activity.  Shared accounts 
shall not be activated for more than the duration of the event.   
6.4 Users shall not share usernames and passwords with anyone.  Users shall not 
write down or record their passwords in unencrypted electronic files or 
documents. When limited access to District-related documents or files is required 
specifically and solely for the proper operation of District operating units and 
where available technical alternatives are not feasible, exceptions are allowed 
under an articulated operating unit policy that is available to all affected operating 
unit personnel. Each such policy must be reviewed by the operating unit executive 
officer and submitted to the Dean of the department responsible for Information 
Technology or the District IT Department for approval. All users must secure 
their username or account, password, and system access from unauthorized use. 
6.5 All users of Systems that contain High Risk or Confidential data must have a 
strong password - the definition of which will be established and documented by 
the District IT Department after consultation with the College community.  These 
passwords must be changed at regularly consistent intervals with guidelines 
developed by the District IT Department.  
6.6 Passwords for empowered accounts, such as administrator, root or supervisor 
accounts, must be changed frequently, consistent with guidelines established by 

INSTRUCTIONAL COMPUTER USE 
 
Information Security R-7871 
Security 7 of 9 
 
the District IT Department. 
6.7 Passwords must not be placed in emails unless they have been encrypted. 
6.8 Default passwords on all Systems must be changed after installation. All 
administrator or root accounts must be given a password that conforms to the 
strong password selection criteria when a system is installed, rebuilt, or 
reconfigured. 
6.9 Logins and passwords should not be coded into programs or queries unless they 
are encrypted or otherwise secure. 
6.10 Users are responsible for safe handling and storage of all District authentication 
devices. Authentication tokens (such as a SecureID card) should not be stored 
with a computer that will be used to access the District’s network or system 
resources. If an authentication device is lost or stolen, the loss must be 
immediately reported to the appropriate individual in the issuing unit so that the 
device can be disabled. 
6.11 Human Resources shall be responsible for reporting terminated employees to the 
District IT Department upon their termination or transfer.  Access for those 
terminated employees shall be reviewed and adjusted as found necessary. 
Normally, terminated employees should have their accounts disabled immediately 
upon termination. Because there could be delays in reporting changes in user 
responsibilities, periodic user access reviews should be conducted by the 
operating unit security person. 
6.12 Transferred employee access shall be reviewed and adjusted as necessary by the 
new supervisor. 
6.13 Monitoring shall be implemented on all Systems including recording logon 
attempts and failures, successful logons and date and time of logon and logoff. 
There shall be a documented procedure for reviewing system logs. 
6.14 Activities performed as administrator or superuser must be logged where it is 
feasible to do so. 
6.15 Personnel who have administrative system access shall use other less powerful 
accounts for performing non-administrative tasks.  
6.16 Users who are authorized to have remote access to the network, servers, and 
Systems must review and adhere to the Los Rios Information Technology Remote 
Access Procedures. 
7.0 All individuals employed by the District are held responsible for 
adhering to District procedures for system access, use and security 
7.1 Computer and network accounts must not be made available to others or used for 

INSTRUCTIONAL COMPUTER USE 
 
Information Security R-7871 
Security 8 of 9 
 
any purpose for which they are not authorized.  Unsponsored research accounts 
must not be used for sponsored research or private consulting. Unauthorized 
attempts to modify system facilities and/or subvert the restrictions associated with 
computer accounts are a violation of State law. 
7.2 Violators of the Instructional Computer Use policies are subject to the termination 
of their access, referral to the account sponsor and appropriate administrator, 
sanctions, dismissal from the District and/or criminal prosecution depending on 
the severity of the violation. 
8.0 System Maintenance  
8.1 The District is charged with maintaining overall security on the Systems and is 
responsible for the development and maintenance of appropriate awareness 
program guidelines, and procedures to assure a secure environment for the 
District community 
8.2 The District’s academic and administrative departments who wish to operate their 
own systems shall comply with these Administrative Regulations.  
8.3 Programs and files are confidential unless they are explicitly made available to 
other authorized individuals.  When performing system maintenance, every effort 
is made to insure the privacy of a user’s files. However, support personnel may 
access files when required for the maintenance of District computing systems and 
networks.  All such access will be recorded and reported at an appropriate time to 
the District.   If in doing so, violations of policy and/or procedure are discovered, 
they will be immediately reported to the Administrator. 
9.0 Exceptions to Policy 
9.1 In certain cases, compliance with specific Policy requirements may not be 
immediately possible. Reasons include, but are not limited to, the following: 
9.1.1 Required commercial or other software in use is not currently able to 
support the required features; 
9.1.2 Legacy systems in use do not comply, but near-term future systems will, 
and are planned for; 
9.1.3 Costs for reasonable compliance are disproportionate relative to the 
potential damage. 
9.2 In such cases, operating units must develop a written explanation of the 
compliance issue and a plan for coming into compliance with the District’s 
Information Security Policy in a reasonable amount of time. Explanations and 
plans must be submitted to the Dean of the department responsible for 
Information Technology at the College or the equivalent officer(s). 

INSTRUCTIONAL COMPUTER USE 
 
Information Security R-7871 
Security 9 of 9 
 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 1/27/97 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 9/27/10; 1/27/14; 12/12/16; 3/19/18 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 12/12/16; 3/19/18 
Board Policy: P-7871