EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Reports of Unlawful or Improper Conduct   R-9158 
Employment Policies 1 of 3 
 
1.0 Definitions 
1.1 A “protected disclosure of unlawful conduct” is the written or oral disclosure of 
information by an employee to the Los Rios Community College District, the 
government or a law enforcement agency where the employee has reasonable 
cause to believe that the information discloses a violation of state or federal 
statute, or a violation or noncompliance with a state or federal rule or regulation. 
1.2 A “protected disclosure of improper conduct” is the written disclosure of 
information to the District submitted under penalty of perjury which identifies 
gross mismanagement or a significant waste of funds, an abuse of authority, or a 
substantial and specific danger to public health or safety, and which is made 
within 60 days of the act or event which is the subject of the disclosure. 
1.3 An “illegal order” is a demand or request that an employee participate in an 
activity that would result in the violation of state or federal statute, or a violation 
or noncompliance with a state or federal rule or regulation.  
1.4 “Retaliate” means any act of intimidation, restraint, coercion, discrimination, or 
disciplinary action taken against any employee, or applicant for employment who 
has made a protected disclosure or refused to obey an illegal order while 
employed by the District/College or during any prior employment. 
2.0 Submitting a Report 
2.1 Any person may report allegations of suspected unlawful or improper conduct.  
Knowledge or suspicion of improper governmental activities may originate from 
academic personnel, staff or administrators carrying out their assigned duties, 
internal or external auditors, law enforcement, regulatory agencies, and 
customers, vendors, students or other third parties. Allegations of suspected 
unlawful conduct may also be reported anonymously. 
2.2 Protected disclosures of unlawful conduct should be made in writing so as to 
assure a clear understanding of the issues raised, but may be made orally. 
2.3 Protected disclosures of improper conduct must be submitted in writing and must 
be made under penalty of perjury and must be made within 60 days of the date of 
the act or event which is the subject of the disclosure.  
2.4 All protected disclosures should be factual and contain as much specific 
information as possible. 
2.5 Normally, a protected disclosure of unlawful conduct or a protected disclosure of 
improper conduct by a District/College employee should be made to the reporting 
employee’s immediate supervisor or other appropriate administrator or supervisor 
within the operating unit. If, however, there is a potential conflict of interest or for 
other reasons, these disclosures may be made to another District/College official 
whom the reporting employee may reasonably expect to have either responsibility 
over the affected area or the authority to review the alleged improper 
governmental activity on behalf of the District/College. When the alleged 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Reports of Unlawful or Improper Conduct   R-9158 
Employment Policies 2 of 3 
 
improper conduct involves the Chancellor’s Executive Staff, such reports should 
be made to the Chancellor or his/her designee. 
2.6 Anonymous reports will be investigated where there is sufficient information 
made available for the District/College to conduct a meaningful investigation and 
take remedial action. However, employees are strongly encouraged not to report 
anonymously because doing so impedes the District’s ability to thoroughly 
investigate the claim and take appropriate remedial measures. 
3.0 Investigation 
3.1 A District/College employee who receives a protected disclosure shall forward 
that report to the District’s Internal Auditor who shall notify the Vice Chancellor, 
Finance and Administration of the report. If the report concerns the Vice 
Chancellor, Finance and Administration, the Internal Auditor shall notify the 
Chancellor of the report. 
3.2 In consultation with the person the Internal Auditor notifies (Chancellor or Vice 
Chancellor, Finance and Administration), the District may enlist the General 
Counsel, police, outside legal, accounting or other advisors, as appropriate, to 
conduct any investigation of complaints regarding fraud, financial statement 
disclosures, disclosure concerns or violations, accounting, internal accounting 
controls, auditing matters or violations of the District’s/College’s Policies and 
Administrative Regulations. 
3.3 All internal complaints will be investigated promptly and with discretion, and all 
information obtained will be handled on a “need to know” basis. At the 
conclusion of an investigation, as appropriate, remedial and/or disciplinary action 
will be taken where the allegations are verified and/or otherwise substantiated. 
4.0 Protection from Retaliation 
4.1 A District/College employee may not retaliate against an employee or applicant 
for employment because they have made a protected disclosure of unlawful 
conduct, because they have made a protected disclosure of improper conduct, 
because they have refused to obey an illegal order, or because they have 
cooperated in any investigation of the foregoing. 
4.2 A District/College employee may not directly or indirectly use or attempt to use 
the official authority or influence of his or her position for the purpose of 
interfering with the right of an employee or applicant for employment to make a 
protected disclosure of unlawful conduct, to make a protected disclosure of 
improper conduct, to refuse to obey an illegal order or to cooperate in the 
investigation of the foregoing.   
4.3 Any employee who believes he or she has been retaliated against for making a 
protected disclosure of unlawful conduct, for making a protected disclosure of 
improper conduct, or for refusing to obey an illegal order or cooperating in an 
investigation of the foregoing, should report such conduct to the appropriate 
supervisory personnel (if such supervisory personnel is not the source of or 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Reports of Unlawful or Improper Conduct   R-9158 
Employment Policies 3 of 3 
 
otherwise involved in the retaliatory conduct). Any supervisory employee who 
receives such a report, or who otherwise is aware of retaliatory conduct, is 
required to advise the Vice Chancellor, Finance and Administration, of any such 
report or knowledge of retaliatory conduct. If the employee believes that reporting 
such conduct to the appropriate supervisor is for any reason inappropriate, 
unacceptable or will be ineffectual, or if the report to the supervisor has been 
made and the retaliatory conduct has not ended, the employee should report the 
incident directly to the Vice Chancellor, Finance and Administration. In the event 
the Vice Chancellor, Finance and Administration is involved, this report should 
be made directly to the Chancellor. 
5.0 Disciplinary Action 
5.1 An employee may be disciplined when they have made a protected disclosure of 
unlawful conduct or a protected disclosure of improper conduct if: 
5.2 The employee has disclosed information that he or she knows to be false or has 
disclosed information with reckless disregard for the truth or falsity thereof. 
5.3 The employee has made a protected disclosure of improper conduct from 
confidential records which they are not authorized to view. 
5.4 The employee has made a public protected disclosure of improper conduct which 
is confidential pursuant to the law. 
5.5 The employee has been the subject of ongoing or existing disciplinary action prior 
to the disclosure of the information and which disciplinary action is based on facts 
unrelated to the protected disclosure. 
5.6 Separate and independent of the protected disclosure, the employee has violated 
state or federal statutes, state or federal rules or regulations, the District’s Policies 
and/or Administrative Regulations, the appropriate collective bargaining 
agreement, or has failed to perform assigned duties, or has committed any other 
act unrelated to the disclosure, and those acts or omissions would otherwise 
subject the employee to disciplinary action.  
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 1/20/10  
Adm. Regulation Revised: 1/26/15; 1/25/16 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 1/25/16 
Board Policy: P-9158