COMPENSATION AND SCHEDULE Sick Leave R-9232 
Leaves and Absences 1 of 2 
 
1.0 Use of Leave 
1.1 When necessary, management and confidential employees will be extended paid 
sick leave up to the number of days accrued by the manager or confidential 
employee and earnable during the current fiscal year. 
1.2 Medical and dental appointments that cannot reasonably be scheduled at times 
other than working hours may be charged to sick leave. The employee must notify 
the supervisor prior to the medical or dental appointment whenever possible. 
1.3 If an employee exhausts accrued sick leave, sick leave credit and Entitlement to 
Other Sick Leave (P-9232), absences for illness will be charged against vacation. 
If vacation time is also exhausted Policy (P-9234) shall be in effect. 
1.4 Management and confidential employees may use accrued sick leave for illness or 
injury resulting from pregnancy, miscarriage, childbirth, and recovery therefrom. 
A unit member shall submit to the site administrative officer for forwarding to 
District Employee Benefits Office a physician’s statement verifying the period of 
time with beginning and ending dates that the unit member was temporarily 
disabled, ill, or injured because of pregnancy, miscarriage, childbirth, and 
recovery therefrom. 
1.4.1 A management or confidential employee may use up to ten (10) days of 
accrued sick leave for absences to care for his/her newborn child or the 
mother of the newborn child without prior medical verification. The use of 
this accrued sick leave is intended for the employee not covered under 
Section 1.4 above. Whenever possible, employees shall provide advance 
notice for use of this leave. When advance notice is not possible, the 
employee will notify his/her supervisor within twenty-four (24) hours of 
the commencement of the leave. 
1.4.2 A management or confidential employee who is adopting a child may use 
up to ten (10) days of accrued sick leave for the purpose of caring for the 
needs of the newly adopted child. 
2.0 Transfer of Accrued Sick Leave 
2.1 Sick leave to be transferred to the District must be transferred within one year of 
initial employment. 
2.2 For sick leave to be transferred to this District, the employee's last previous 
employment must have terminated within the last year. (Ed. Code §§ 87782 and 
88202) 
2.3 The Employee Benefits Office may require notarized verification on accrued sick 
leave to be transferred into the District from previous employment as well as a 
copy of the previous employer's policy related to accrual of sick leave. 

COMPENSATION AND SCHEDULE Sick Leave R-9232 
Leaves and Absences 2 of 2 
 
3.0 Payment of Sick Leave 
3.1 Management and confidential employees shall receive their regular salary during 
sick leaves whether such leave is accrued or is to be earned during the current 
year. 
3.2 If an employee leaves the service of the District having used more sick leave than 
has been earned, a deduction for excess leave shall be made from the final salary 
payment. If no salary is due the terminating employee, the employee will be billed 
by the District for the amount of the overpayment. 
3.3 A physician's statement verifying illness of the employee may be required by the 
manager and shall be required for any absence in excess of ten (10) days. 
4.0 Claims for Illness Absence 
4.1 Immediately following the absence, sick leave used shall be entered in hours on 
the employee's Cumulative Absence Report form. The form must be signed by the 
employee and the immediate supervisor and forwarded to the Employee Benefits 
Office. If the employee is not available to sign the Cumulative Absence Report, 
the immediate supervisor shall sign and forward a copy to the manager. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 2/22/78 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 2/18/81; 6/16/82; 10/26/98 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed:  
Board Policy: P-9232