DISTRICT CLASSIFICATION PLAN Permanent Reclassification Procedure R-6216 
Authorization for a Plan 1 of 3 
 
1.0 Purpose 
It is the purpose of this procedure to establish a process for the reclassification of 
classified positions within the Los Rios Community College District. 
2.0 Reclassification Review Board 
A districtwide Reclassification Review Board is established to review all requests for 
reclassification submitted through the processes developed herein. Thorough 
consideration of the impact of the proposed reclassification on other positions with 
comparable responsibilities will be the major function of the Reclassification Review 
Board. 
2.1 The Board will meet quarterly in accordance with a calendar developed by the 
Board at the beginning of each fiscal year and distributed by the Director of 
Classified Personnel Services. 
3.0 Reclassification Categories 
3.1 Employee Initiated 
3.2 Supervisor Initiated 
3.3 Management Initiated 
4.0 Employee Initiated 
4.1 Classified employees shall not be required to perform duties which are not fixed 
and prescribed for the position classification by the Governing Board, unless the 
duties relate to those fixed for the position as per Education Code Section 88010, 
and as provided by contract with the employees' exclusive representatives.  
4.2 It is incumbent upon a regular District employee to notify his/her supervisor in 
writing when the employee believes that he/she is being regularly required to 
perform duties beyond those of the job description for the position held without 
corresponding compensation. In no case will the employee receive credit for 
working out of classification for more than five (5) days prior to making the 
notification. 
4.3 The supervisor will meet with the employee within 15 days of receipt of written 
notification to review the areas of concern and make recommendations pursuant 
to college or District Office procedures. Following review by the college or 
District Office as appropriate, the employee will be notified of the decision 
reached by the college with a copy to the employee's exclusive representative. 

DISTRICT CLASSIFICATION PLAN Permanent Reclassification Procedure R-6216 
Authorization for a Plan 2 of 3 
 
5.0 Supervisor Initiated 
5.1 It is the supervisor's responsibility to assign only job-related duties and 
responsibilities to employees as defined in the appropriate job description. When 
a supervisor determines that the duties and responsibilities of a classified position 
should be upgraded, he/she will initiate a Request for Reclassification. (Forms 
may be obtained from the Classified Personnel Director's Office.) Requests must 
be made in advance of the assumption of new duties. 
5.2 A copy of the completed form is to be given to the appropriate managers for the 
college or District Office/Central Maintenance. A copy of the current job 
description should be attached to the completed form and, if applicable, a copy of 
the job description under which the new assignment falls should also be attached. 
If there is no such job description, a description of the new duties and 
responsibilities must be included. Budget implications must also be addressed in 
the request for reclassification. An analysis sheet comparing current duties to 
proposed or added duties is optional but desirable. 
5.3 The appropriate managers, after consulting with the classified personnel manager, 
will make a recommendation either in support of or in opposition to the request 
and forward it to the president (college) or vice chancellor (District Office/Central 
Maintenance).  
5.4 The president/vice chancellor will review those requests forwarded to him/her. If 
approved, a signed copy of the request will be forwarded to the Director of 
Classified Personnel Services for consideration by the Reclassification Review 
Board. Such requests must be sent to Personnel within the time lines of the 
established calendar for Reclassification Review Board meetings. 
5.4.1 If the request for reclassification is rejected by the college, the Vice 
President, Administration, will notify the affected employee, the 
appropriate employee's exclusive representative, and the Director of 
Classified Personnel Services of the decision within ten (10) working 
days, but in no event later than the date the request would be due in the 
Personnel Office. 
5.4.2 The employee's exclusive representative may file an appeal of the rejected 
request with the Director of Classified Personnel Services for 
consideration at the next Reclassification Review Board meeting. In order 
to be scheduled, the appeal must be filed no later than ten (10) working 
days prior to the next scheduled meeting of the Review Board. 
5.5 The District Reclassification Review Board will consider any rejected requests for 
reclassification which have been appealed by the exclusive representative. If the 
Board decides that further consideration of a rejection should be given, it shall 
refer the rejection to the appropriate college or District Office/Central 
Maintenance administrator for further review. 

DISTRICT CLASSIFICATION PLAN Permanent Reclassification Procedure R-6216 
Authorization for a Plan 3 of 3 
 
5.6 Those recommendations that are approved by the Reclassification Review Board, 
will be presented to the Chancellor's Cabinet for review before being 
recommended to the Chancellor for recommendation to the Board of Trustees. 
Unapproved will be returned to the appropriate college president/vice chancellor. 
The president/vice chancellor will inform the affected employee's exclusive 
representative of the decision. 
6.0 Management Initiated Reclassification Studies 
6.1 Management initiated reclassification studies will address broad categories of 
employees or certain classifications. They may be identified by colleges, district 
personnel office or employees' exclusive representatives, or stem from the 
Reclassification Review Board deliberations. 
6.2 In order to initiate a broad study of classified positions, the Chancellor must 
recommend such action, subject to Board approval. (Board Policy, (P-6221)) 
6.3 Such studies may involve the Reclassification Review Board and/or an outside 
consultant. 
7.0 Exclusions 
7.1 This regulation is not subject to the grievance procedure. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 4/6/83 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 6/27/89 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed:  
Board Policy: None