EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Examination of Records R-6151 
Personnel Records 1 of 2 
 
1.0 Confidential File Contents 
1.1 The application and materials relating to employment and evaluation of an 
employee's performance shall become part of the employee's permanent 
confidential record. The contents of an employee's personnel folder shall not be 
removed from the file of Personnel Services. (Education Code § 87031) 
1.2 Ratings, reports, or records which were obtained prior to employment with the 
District, were prepared by identifiable examination committee members, or were 
obtained in connection with a promotional examination are not subject to the 
employee's review. 
1.3 Employees are encouraged to submit transcripts, certificates of completion, 
workshop, or seminar attendance, verification of professional organization 
participation, etc., to their personnel files so that achievement and 
accomplishments may be considered for promotional opportunities. 
2.0 Custodian of Records 
2.1 The custodian of all personnel files maintained at the District's central 
administrative office shall be the Director, Personnel Services. The custodian of 
personnel files shall maintain such files in a secure place at all times and shall 
control access thereto in accordance with the regulations hereby established. 
3.0 Examination by Employees  
3.1 A classified employee may examine his/her own permanent personnel record file 
by requesting an appointment with the custodian of records. In review of the file, 
the employee may be accompanied by a friend or a representative of a recognized 
classified group to which the individual belongs. 
3.2 The employee will be permitted to review his/her permanent personnel record at 
the District Office in the presence of the custodian of records or designated 
representative. 
3.3 The employee may not remove documents permanently from the personnel folder, 
but the individual may request to have single copies made for personal use. The 
employee shall bear the cost of this reproduction. 
4.0 Examination by Others 
4.1 Supervisory personnel may review the contents of an employee's personnel folder 
on a "need-to-know" basis. The review will be made in the presence of the 
custodian of records. 
4.2 The custodian of records may permit access to personnel files to designated staff 
for the purposes of filing documents and gathering data in the normal course of 
District operations. 

EMPLOYMENT PROCEDURES 
 
Examination of Records R-6151 
Personnel Records 2 of 2 
 
4.3 Properly identified individuals having legal investigative authority will consult 
with the custodian of records regarding the review of confidential employee 
records. The custodian of records will follow procedures outlined in Section 6.0 
of this regulation when allowing confidential employee records to be inspected 
pursuant to this section and Section 4.4. 
4.4 Other persons will be allowed to review the employee's confidential records only 
by written permission of the employee. 
5.0 Material of a Derogatory Nature 
5.1 Information which is disciplinary in nature or may lead to disciplinary action, 
except as mentioned in Section 1.2 above, shall not be entered or filed into the 
employee's permanent personnel record unless the employee is notified and given 
an opportunity to review and comment on the materials. 
6.0 Procedure 
6.1 Any person allowed by the custodian of records to inspect a personnel file 
pursuant to the provisions of Sections 4.3 and 4.4 of this regulation shall, as a 
condition precedent to such inspection, fill out and sign a form which states the 
purpose for which the inspection is to be made, the date of inspection, and 
containing the signature of the person who makes the inspection. The completed 
form shall be placed in the personnel file inspected. 
6.2 With respect to inspection of a personnel file pursuant to the provisions of 
Sections 4.3 and 4.4 of this regulation, copies of the contents of the files shall not 
be given to persons making the inspection except by order of the custodian of 
records. 
6.3 Persons who have inspected personnel files pursuant to the provisions of Section 
4.0 of this regulation shall not divulge information derived therefrom to any 
person who is not an officer or employee of the District, or to another officer or 
employee of the District except when necessary in the conduct of District 
business. 
 (Formerly P-6131) 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 9/2/70 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 12/16/79; 10/15/80; 10/20/82; 4/28/97 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed:  
Board Policy: P-6151