STUDENT SUCCESS AND SUPPORT PROGRAM 
 
Prerequisites R-2831 
Prerequisites, Co-requisites, Advisories on 
Recommended Preparation and Other Limitations on 
Enrollment 
1 of 12 
 
1.0 District Policies and Procedures 
1.1 College Catalog 
1.1.1 Each College of the Los Rios Community College District shall provide 
the following explanations both in the College catalog and in the schedule 
of classes: 
1.1.2 Definitions of prerequisites, co-requisites, and limitations on enrollment, 
including the differences among them and the specific prerequisites, co-
requisites, and limitations on enrollment that have been established. 
1.1.3 Procedures for a student to challenge prerequisites, co-requisites, and 
limitations on enrollment, and circumstances under which a student is 
encouraged to make such a challenge. The information about challenges 
must include, at a minimum, the specific process, including any deadlines, 
the various types of challenge that are established in law, and any 
additional types of challenge permitted by the College. 
1.1.4 Define advisories on recommended preparation, the right of a student to 
choose to take a course without meeting the advisory, and circumstances 
under which a student is encouraged to exercise that right. 
1.2 Challenge Process 
1.2.1 Each College shall establish a process by which any student who does not 
meet a prerequisite or co-requisite or who is not permitted to enroll due to 
a limitation on enrollment but who provides satisfactory evidence may 
seek entry into the class as follows: 
1.2.2 If space is available in a course when a student files a challenge to the 
prerequisite or co-requisite, the District shall reserve a seat for the student 
and resolve the challenge within five (5) working days. If the challenge is 
upheld or the District fails to resolve the challenge within the five (5) 
working-day period, the student shall be allowed to enroll in the course. If 
no space is available in the course when a challenge is filed, the challenge 
shall be resolved prior to the beginning of registration for the next term 
and, if the challenge is upheld, the student shall be permitted to enroll if 
space is available when the student registers for that subsequent term. 
1.2.3 Grounds for challenge shall include the following: 
1.2.3.1 Those grounds for challenge specified in California Code of 
Regulations, title 5, section 55003, subdivision (p). 
1.2.3.2 The student seeks to enroll and has not been allowed to enroll due 
to a limitation on enrollment established for a course that involves 

STUDENT SUCCESS AND SUPPORT PROGRAM 
 
Prerequisites R-2831 
Prerequisites, Co-requisites, Advisories on 
Recommended Preparation and Other Limitations on 
Enrollment 
2 of 12 
 
intercollegiate competition or public performance, or one or more 
of the courses for which enrollment has been limited to a cohort of 
students. The student shall be allowed to enroll in such a course if 
otherwise he or she would be delayed by a semester or more in 
attaining the degree or certificate specified in his or her student 
education plan. 
1.2.3.3 The student seeks to enroll in a course which has a prerequisite 
established to protect health and safety, and the student 
demonstrates that he or she does not pose a threat to himself or 
herself or others. 
1.2.4 The College shall formally establish a challenge process including: 
1.2.4.1 Who makes the determination of whether the challenge is valid. 
For challenges concerning academic qualifications, the initial 
determination shall be made by someone who is knowledgeable 
about the discipline, preferably someone qualified to teach in the 
discipline, but not the person who is the instructor of the section in 
which the student wishes to enroll.  
1.2.4.2 What possibility of appeal exists. If the validity of the challenge is 
determined by one person and not a committee, there must be an 
opportunity to appeal. 
1.2.4.3 The student has the obligation to provide satisfactory evidence that 
the challenge should be upheld. However, where facts essential to 
a determination of whether the student’s challenge should be 
upheld are or ought to be in the College’s own records, then the 
College has the obligation to produce that information. 
1.2.4.4 In any challenge that the prerequisite or co-requisite is either 
unlawfully discriminatory or is being applied in a discriminatory 
manner, the College shall promptly advise the student that he or 
she may file a formal complaint of unlawful discrimination. 
1.3 Curriculum Review Process 
1.3.1 The curriculum review process at each College shall at a minimum be in 
accordance with all of the following: 
1.3.2 Establish a curriculum committee and its membership in a manner that is 
mutually agreeable to the College administration and the academic senate. 
1.3.3 Establish prerequisites, co-requisites, and advisories on recommended 
preparation (advisories) only upon the recommendation of the academic 
senate except that the academic senate may delegate this task to the 

STUDENT SUCCESS AND SUPPORT PROGRAM 
 
Prerequisites R-2831 
Prerequisites, Co-requisites, Advisories on 
Recommended Preparation and Other Limitations on 
Enrollment 
3 of 12 
 
curriculum committee without forfeiting its rights or responsibilities under 
California Code of Regulations, title 5, section 53200-53204. Certain 
limitation on enrollment must be established in the same manner. See 2.3 
below. 
1.3.4 Establish prerequisites, co-requisites, advisories on recommended 
preparation, and limitations on enrollment only if: 
1.3.4.1 The faculty in the discipline or, if the College has no faculty 
member in the discipline, the faculty in the department do all of the 
following: 
1.3.4.1.1 Approve the course; and,  
1.3.4.1.2 As a separate action, approve any prerequisite or co-
requisite, only if: 
(1) The prerequisite or co-requisite is an appropriate 
and rational measure of a student’s readiness to 
enter the course or program; and, as demonstrated 
by a content review including, at a minimum, all of 
the following: 
a. involvement of faculty with appropriate 
expertise; 
b. consideration of course objectives set by 
relevant department(s). The curriculum review 
process should be done in a manner that is in 
accordance with accreditation standards; 
c. be based on a detailed course syllabus and 
outline of record, tests, related instructional 
materials, course format, type and number of 
examinations, and grading criteria; 
d. specification of the body of knowledge and/or 
skills which are deemed necessary at entry 
and/or concurrent with enrollment; 
e. identification and review of the prerequisite or 
co-requisite which develops the body of 
knowledge and/or measures skills identified 
under d.; 
f. matching of the knowledge and skills in the 
targeted course (identified under d.) and those 

STUDENT SUCCESS AND SUPPORT PROGRAM 
 
Prerequisites R-2831 
Prerequisites, Co-requisites, Advisories on 
Recommended Preparation and Other Limitations on 
Enrollment 
4 of 12 
 
developed or measured by the prerequisite or 
co-requisite (i.e., the course or assessment 
identified under e.); and 
g. maintain documentation that the above steps 
were taken. 
(2) The prerequisite or co-requisite meets the scrutiny 
specified in one (1) of the following: 2.1.1.1 
through 2.1.1.7, and specify which. 
1.3.4.1.3 Approve any limitation on enrollment that is being 
established for an honors course or section, for a course 
that includes intercollegiate competition or public 
performance, or so that a cohort of students will be 
enrolled in two (2) or more courses, and, in a separate 
action, specify which. 
1.3.4.1.4 Approve that the course meets the academic standards 
required for degree applicable courses, non-degree 
applicable courses, non-credit courses, or community 
service respectively. 
1.3.4.1.5 Review the course outline to determine if a student 
would be highly unlikely to receive a satisfactory grade 
unless the student had knowledge or skills not taught in 
the course. If the student would need knowledge or 
skills not taught in the course itself, then the course 
may be approved for degree applicable credit only if all 
requirements for establishing the appropriate 
prerequisite have been met excepting only approval by 
the curriculum committee. 
1.3.4.1.6 Review the course outline to determine whether 
receiving a satisfactory grade is dependent on skills in 
communication or computation. If receiving a 
satisfactory grade is sufficiently dependent on such 
skills, then the course may be approved for degree 
applicable credit only if all requirements have been met 
for establishing a prerequisite or co-requisite of not less 
than eligibility for enrollment to a degree-applicable 
course in English or mathematics, respectively. 
1.3.4.1.7 A course that should have a prerequisite or co-requisite 
as provided in 1.3.3.1.5 or 1.3.3.1.6 but for which one 

STUDENT SUCCESS AND SUPPORT PROGRAM 
 
Prerequisites R-2831 
Prerequisites, Co-requisites, Advisories on 
Recommended Preparation and Other Limitations on 
Enrollment 
5 of 12 
 
(1) or more of the requirements for establishing a 
prerequisite have not been met may only: 
(1) be reviewed and approved pursuant to the standards 
for non-degree applicable credit, non-credit, or 
community service; (Cal. Code of Regs., tit. 5, § 
55002) or 
(2) be revised and reviewed as required to meet the 
criteria for establishing the necessary prerequisites 
or co-requisites. 
1.3.4.2 The curriculum committee also reviews the course and prerequisite 
in a manner that meets each of the requirements specified in 
1.3.3.1. 
1.4 Program Review 
1.4.1 As a regular part of the Program Review process or at least every six (6) 
years (and at least every two [2] years for Career Technical Education 
[CTE] courses or programs), each College shall review each prerequisite, 
co-requisite, or advisory to establish that each is still supported by the 
faculty in the discipline or department and by the curriculum committee 
and is still in compliance with all other provisions of this Administrative 
Regulation and with the law. Any prerequisite or co-requisite that is 
successfully challenged under California Code of Regulations, title 5, 
section 55003, subdivisions (p)(1), (p)(2), or (p)(3) shall be reviewed 
promptly thereafter to assure that it is in compliance with all other 
provisions of this Administrative Regulation and with the law. 
1.5 Implementing Prerequisites, Co-requisites, and Limitations on Enrollment 
1.5.1 Implementation of prerequisites, co-requisites, and limitations on 
enrollment must be done in a consistent manner and not left exclusively to 
the classroom instructor. Every attempt shall be made to enforce all 
conditions a student must meet to be enrolled in the class through the 
registration process so that a student is not permitted to enroll unless he or 
she has met all the conditions or has met all except those for which he or 
she has a pending challenge or for which further information is needed 
before final determination is possible of whether the student has met the 
condition. 
1.6 Instructor’s Formal Agreement to Teach the Course as Described 
1.6.1 Each College shall establish a procedure so that courses for which 
prerequisites or co-requisites are established will be taught in accordance 
with the course outline, particularly those aspects of the course outline that 

STUDENT SUCCESS AND SUPPORT PROGRAM 
 
Prerequisites R-2831 
Prerequisites, Co-requisites, Advisories on 
Recommended Preparation and Other Limitations on 
Enrollment 
6 of 12 
 
are the basis for justifying the establishment of the prerequisite or co-
requisite. The process shall be established by consulting collegially with 
the local academic senate and, if appropriate, the local bargaining unit. 
2.0 Review of Individual Courses 
If the student’s enrollment in a course or program is to be contingent on his or her having 
met the proposed prerequisite(s) or co-requisite(s), then such a prerequisite or co-requisite 
must be established as follows. If enrollment is not blocked, then what is being established is 
not a prerequisite or co-requisite but, rather, an advisory on recommended preparation and 
must be identified as such in the schedule and catalog. Establishing advisories does not 
require all the following steps- (see 2.2 below). Advisories shall be periodically reviewed. 
1.7 Prerequisites and Co-requisites 
2.1.1 Levels of Scrutiny 
Prerequisites and co-requisites must meet the requirements of at least one 
(1) of the following subsections: 
1.1.1.1 The Standard Prerequisites or Co-requisites 
Each College may establish satisfactory completion of a course as 
prerequisite or co-requisite for another course provided that, in 
addition to obtaining the review of the faculty in the discipline or 
department and the curriculum committee as provided above, the 
College specified as part of the course outline of record at least 
three of the campuses of the University of California and the 
California State University which reflect in their catalogs that they 
offer the equivalent course with the equivalent prerequisite(s) or 
co-requisite(s). Any combination of University of California 
campuses and California State University campuses is acceptable 
in satisfaction of this requirement. 
1.1.1.2 Sequential Courses Within and Across Disciplines 
A course may be established as a prerequisite or co-requisite for 
another course provided that, in addition to the review by faculty in 
the department or discipline and by the curriculum committee as 
described above, skills, concepts, and/or information taught in the 
first course are presupposed in the second course, and a list of the 
specific skills and/or knowledge a student must possess in order to 
be ready to take the second course is included in its outline or 
record. 

STUDENT SUCCESS AND SUPPORT PROGRAM 
 
Prerequisites R-2831 
Prerequisites, Co-requisites, Advisories on 
Recommended Preparation and Other Limitations on 
Enrollment 
7 of 12 
 
1.1.1.3 Courses in Communication or Computation Skills 
Prerequisites establishing communication or computational skill 
requirements may not be established across the entire curriculum 
unless established on a course by course basis. A course in 
communication or computation skills, or eligibility for enrollment 
in such a course, may be established as a prerequisite or co-
requisite for any course other than another course in 
communication or computation skills if, in addition to the review 
by the faculty in the discipline or department and by the 
curriculum committee as provided above, the following is also 
done: 
2.1.1.3.1 A list of the specific skills a student must possess in 
order to be ready to take the course is included in the 
course outline of record; and 
2.1.1.3.2 Research is conducted as provided in 2.1.1.7; 
2.1.1.3.3 The prerequisite or co-requisite may be established for 
a period of not more than two (2) years while the 
research is being conducted provided that a 
determination is made that a student who lacks the 
particular skills is highly unlikely to receive a 
satisfactory grade because a sufficient percentage of the 
grade is directly dependent on these skills. This 
determination must be approved both by the faculty in 
the discipline as provided in 1.3.3.1 and by the 
curriculum committee as provided in 1.3.3.2 and must 
be based on a review of the syllabus as well as samples 
of tests and other assignments on which the grade is 
based. 
2.1.1.3.4 The requirements of 2.1.1.3.2 related to research shall 
not apply when: 
(1) four-year institutions will not grant credit for a 
course unless it has the particular communication or 
computation skill prerequisite; or 
(2) the prerequisite or co-requisite is required for 
enrollment in a program, that program is subject to 
approval by a state agency other than the 
Chancellor’s Office and both of the following 
conditions are satisfied: 

STUDENT SUCCESS AND SUPPORT PROGRAM 
 
Prerequisites R-2831 
Prerequisites, Co-requisites, Advisories on 
Recommended Preparation and Other Limitations on 
Enrollment 
8 of 12 
 
a. colleges in at least six (6) different districts have 
previously satisfied the research requirements of 
2.1.1.3.2 with respect to the same prerequisite or 
co-requisite for the same program; and 
b. the College establishing the prerequisite or co-
requisite conducts an evaluation to determine 
whether the prerequisite or co-requisite has a 
disproportionate impact on particular groups of 
students described in terms of race, ethnicity, 
gender, age, or disability, as defined by the 
Chancellor. When there is a disproportionate 
impact on any such group of students, the 
College shall, in consultation with the California 
Community College Chancellor’s Office, 
develop and implement a plan setting forth the 
steps the College will take to correct the 
disproportionate impact.  
1.1.1.4 Cut Scores and Prerequisites 
Whether or not research is required to establish a prerequisite, data 
collected to validate assessment instruments and cut scores is 
always relevant to reviewing the prerequisites for the associated 
courses. If such data are insufficient to establish the cut scores, any 
course prerequisites established for the same course or courses 
may not be printed in subsequent catalogs and schedules nor 
enforced in subsequent semesters until the problems are resolved, 
and sufficient data exist to establish the cut scores. In such a case, 
the collection of this data shall be done in the manner prescribed in 
2.1.1.7 of this Administrative Regulation in addition to other 
requirements of law. Such a prerequisite may be changed to an 
advisory on recommended preparation while the problems are 
being resolved. 
1.1.1.5 Programs 
In order to establish a prerequisite for a program, the proposed 
prerequisite must be approved as provided for a course prerequisite 
in regard to at least one (1) course that is required as part of the 
program. 

STUDENT SUCCESS AND SUPPORT PROGRAM 
 
Prerequisites R-2831 
Prerequisites, Co-requisites, Advisories on 
Recommended Preparation and Other Limitations on 
Enrollment 
9 of 12 
 
1.1.1.6 Health and Safety 
A prerequisite or co-requisite may be established provided that, in 
addition to the review by faculty in the department or division and 
by the curriculum committee as provided above:  
2.1.1.6.1 The course for which the prerequisite is proposed is one 
in which the student might endanger his or her own 
health and safety or the health and safety of others; and 
2.1.1.6.2 The prerequisite is that the student possesses what is 
necessary to protect his or her health and safety and the 
health and safety of others before entering the course. 
1.1.1.7 Recency and Other Measures of Readiness 
Recency and other measures of readiness may be established as a 
prerequisite or co-requisite only if, in addition to the review by the 
faculty in the discipline or department and by the curriculum 
committee as provided above, the following is also done: 
2.1.1.7.1 A list of the specific skills a student must possess in 
order to be ready to take the course is included in the 
course outline or record. 
2.1.1.7.2 Data are gathered according to sound research practices 
in at least one (1) of the following areas: 
(1) The extent to which students, those currently 
enrolled in the course or those who have completed 
it, believe the proposed prerequisite to co-requisite 
is necessary. 
(2) Comparison of the faculty members’ appraisal of 
students’ readiness for the course to whether 
students met the proposed prerequisite or co-
requisite. The faculty appraisal could be done at any 
time in the semester that the College determined 
was appropriate and based on independent 
assignments, quizzes and exams, participation in 
class, or other indicators that the student was or was 
not ready to take the course. 
(3) Comparison of students’ performance at any point 
in the course with completion of the proposed 
prerequisite or co-requisite. 

STUDENT SUCCESS AND SUPPORT PROGRAM 
 
Prerequisites R-2831 
Prerequisites, Co-requisites, Advisories on 
Recommended Preparation and Other Limitations on 
Enrollment 
10 of 12 
 
(4) Comparison of student performance in the course to 
their scores on assessment instruments in the 
manner required to validate an assessment 
instrument and cut scores for the course in question 
as described in 2.1.1.4. 
2.1.1.7.3 The standard for any comparison done pursuant to 2.1.1 
shall be that a student is highly unlikely to receive a 
satisfactory grade in the course unless the student has 
met the proposed prerequisite or co-requisite. The 
research design, operational definition, and numerical 
standards, if appropriate, shall be developed by research 
personnel, discipline faculty, and representatives of the 
academic senate. If the evidence fails to meet the 
standard established, each College may establish the 
proposed prerequisite or co-requisite as a recommended 
preparation and may seek to establish it as a 
prerequisite or co-requisite only by following the 
process described in this Administrative Regulation and 
any applicable College policies. 
2.1.1.7.4 If the curriculum committee has determined as provided 
in 1.3.3.1 that a new course needs to have a prerequisite 
or co-requisite, then the prerequisite or co-requisite may 
be established for a single period of not more than two 
(2) years while research is being conducted and a 
determination is being made, provided that 
(1) all other requirements for establishing the 
prerequisite or co-requisite have already been met; 
and 
(2) students are informed that they may enroll in the 
course although they do not meet the prerequisite. 
However, students who lack the prerequisite may 
not constitute more than twenty percent (20%) of 
those enrolled in any section of the course; 
(3) prerequisites and co-requisites which are exempt 
from review at the time they are, or were, 
established, as provided in California Code of 
Regulations, title 5, section 55201, subdivision (e), 
are not eligible for this exception, and the research 
must be conducted during the six (6) years before 
they must be reviewed (see 1.4 above). 

STUDENT SUCCESS AND SUPPORT PROGRAM 
 
Prerequisites R-2831 
Prerequisites, Co-requisites, Advisories on 
Recommended Preparation and Other Limitations on 
Enrollment 
11 of 12 
 
2.1.2 Additional Rules 
California Code of Regulations, title 5, section 55003 specifies additional 
rules which are to be considered part of this document as though 
reproduced here. 
1.8 Advisories on Recommended Preparation 
Each College may recommend that a student meet a standard of readiness at entry 
only if recommended by the faculty in the discipline or department and by the 
curriculum committee as provided in 1.3 above. This process is required whether 
the College used to describe such recommendations in its catalog or schedule as 
“prerequisites,” or “recommended,” or by any other term. 
1.9 Limitations on Enrollment 
The types of limitation on enrollment specified below may only be established 
through the curriculum review process by the discipline or department faculty and 
the curriculum committee specified above including the requirement to review 
them again at least every six (6) years, for example, as part of program review. 
The following requirements must also be met in order to establish these particular 
limitations on enrollment. 
2.3.1 Performance Courses 
Each College may establish audition or try-out as a limitation on 
enrollment for courses that include public performance or intercollegiate 
competition such as, but not limited to, band, orchestra, theater, 
competitive speech, chorus, journalism, dance, and intercollegiate athletics 
provided that: 
2.3.1.1 For any certificate or associate degree requirement that can be met 
by taking this course, there is another course or courses which 
satisfy the same requirement; and 
2.3.1.2 The College includes in the course outline or record a list of each 
certificate or associate degree requirement that the course meets 
and of the other course or courses which meet the same 
requirement. 
2.3.1.3 Limitations on enrollment established as provided for performance 
courses shall be reviewed during program review or at least every 
six (6) years to determine whether the audition or try-out process is 
having a disproportionate impact on any historically 
underrepresented group and, if so, a plan shall be adopted to seek 
to remedy the disproportionate impact. If disproportionate impact 
has been found, the limitation on enrollment may not be printed in 

STUDENT SUCCESS AND SUPPORT PROGRAM 
 
Prerequisites R-2831 
Prerequisites, Co-requisites, Advisories on 
Recommended Preparation and Other Limitations on 
Enrollment 
12 of 12 
 
subsequent catalogs or schedules nor enforced in any subsequent 
term until such a plan has been endorsed by the department and the 
College administration and put into effect. (See also Sections 
55502(e) and 55512.) 
2.3.2 Honors Courses 
A limitation on enrollment for an honors course or an honors section of a 
course may be established if, in addition to the review by the faculty in 
discipline or department and by the curriculum committee as provided 
above, there is another section or another course or courses at the College 
that satisfy the same requirements. If the limitation is for an honors course 
and not only for an honors section, the College must also include in the 
course outline of record a list of each certificate or associate degree 
requirement that the course meets and of the other course or courses which 
meet the same associate degree or certificate requirement. 
2.3.3 Blocks of Courses or Sections 
Blocks of courses or blocks of sections of courses are two (2) or more 
courses or sections for which enrollment is limited in order to create a 
cohort of students. Such a limitation on enrollment may be established if, 
in addition to review by the faculty in the discipline or department and by 
the curriculum committee as provided above, there is a reasonable 
percentage of all sections that do not have such restrictions. If the cohort is 
created through limitations on enrollment in the courses rather than 
limitations on specific sections of courses, then the College must include 
in the course outline of record a list of each certificate or associate degree 
requirement that the course meets and of the other course or courses that 
satisfy the same associate degree or certificate requirement. 
LRCCD 
Adm. Regulation Adopted: 10/8/91 
Adm. Regulation Revised: 4/13/94; 2/10/03; 4/27/15 
Adm. Regulation Reviewed: 4/27/15 
Board Policy: P-2831